Allan crouched over his desk once more , pen in hand and mind blank .
He contemplated a story , an outline he had laboriously constructed some time ago .
He had filled his pen and raised it , the nib descending towards the paper , before the sound came : the gentle , persistent tapping of the gnarled , primeval willow touching the window with long , insistent fingers .
His eyes awoke with a passionate , determined flame , though the only light came from the glutted moon .
Allan filled page after page , the words escaping from his mind onto the paper .
Where before they had marched in regiments , practiced in ranks and followed their leaders ' commands , the words now escaped in their true forms , unhindered by any stricture .
He continued long into the night , until the eldritch orb had sunk into the waiting hands of the willow , raised perpetually skyward .
Arthur looked up from the results of a night 's frenzied labors and looked Allan in the eye .
" What is this ? "
he queried , indicating the pages he held in his left hand .
" I decided that … since I was n't having much success with more – traditional – stories , I might see what sort of work I produced if I let my imagination go freely , " Allan replied , somewhat less self - assured than he had been the previous night .
" What in G - d 's name could have possessed you to do such a thing , " cried Arthur , nearly raising his voice .
" After all I said the day before , why have you abandoned centuries of literary progress for some self - indulgent fantasy ? "
He shook the papers at Allan , raising them like a belt above the head of a disobedient son .
" This is nothing but a glorified Grimm 's tale , a miscarried child of Stoker , a creation less fit to be published than to be told around an open fire at the hovel of some peasant ! "
He spoke the last word with such heavy intonation that Allan shrank back before the physical wave of sound emanating from Arthur 's throat .
" Do you hate the modern system of literature ?
Do you personally despise the works the Enlightenment or the progress made since Shakespeare ? "
For a moment , Allan could hardly do more than shake his head .
" No , of course not … I– " " Then why , " Arthur barreled on , " do you disregard them all and return to this superstitious babble , this morbid , paganistic drivel ?