The old vaulted church was stripped down : there was no cloth on the altar , just a DJ 's toolkit and his beer .
Through the dark , I could see three bolts left in the wall from where they 'd taken down the crucifix .
A confessional too beaten - up to have been sold was shaking in a way that suggested activity inside , and where the pews had been taken out , a couple hundred people were testifying to the DJ 's moving sermon .
Rachel stepped forward into the crowd while I took a moment to drink in the ceiling 's blue - lit , shadowed vault and the light - catching haze from who - knows - what rising between the DJ and the crowd .
There was a terrific echo , each beat reverberating inside of the next , and the old stained - glass windows rattled in their frames .
On the dance floor , people moved with their eyes closed and their hands in the air .
I danced with Rachel for a while , but then something by the bar seemed to be pulling her eyes .
She told me that she was heading for a drink and slipped out of the crowd .
When she had n't come back halfway through the next song , I glanced over at the bar .
It was just a little set - up where someone had stacked a few crates and brought something alcoholic to share , mostly beer .
Rachel was standing with a plastic cup , looking like she was having a conversation , but I could n't see anyone else there .
The next time the crowd split , I saw him .
He stood in front of a blue light , so I could n't see him clearly , but what I saw was memorable .
He wore a jacket of what might have been blue velvet , and his hair gleamed black against his white skin .
The blue haze seemed to stop just shy of his pallor , setting off his striking face without illuminating its details , and his wrists flashed white in the darkness .
He did n't move , just stared and held his drink .
The next time I saw them , his mouth was moving .
She nodded and he took her arm .
I watched them through the crush of dancers as they squeezed along the wall , and the feeling came to me that something was very wrong .
Saturday morning , I woke up and saw that she still had n't come home .