( CNN ) -- Air New Zealand 's latest in - flight safety video , released Tuesday , is already another viral hit but is encountering some turbulence over its use of several bikini - clad Sports Illustrated models .
View the video here Previous versions of the video -- starring anything from Hobbits to Bear Grylls to New Zealand 's all conquering All Blacks rugby team -- have revolutionized the on - board safety message airlines deliver to passengers .
The most recent effort though is being criticized by some as neither ground - breaking nor as creative , after the airline teamed up with Sports Illustrated magazine to produce what it 's calling " The world 's most beautiful safety video . "
The " Safety in Paradise " video , which rolls out on Air New Zealand flights at the end of February , is beautifully shot and certainly cheerful and fun .
It was filmed in the Cook Islands -- home to several stunning beaches -- and coincides with the 50th anniversary of Sports Illustrated 's Swimsuit franchise .
Earlier videos have been witty , clever and quirky but the paradise video combines a far less subtle use of eye - catching material -- using four of the planet 's most beautiful , and scantily clad women , to deliver information to passengers .
The models include Ariel Meredith , Chrissy Teigen , Hannah Davis and Jessica Gomes .
Christie Brinkley makes a cameo .
" It seems that suddenly they are saying that my sexuality is all that matters about me , " one critic , Massey University lecturer and feminist commentator Deborah Russell told the Sydney Morning Herald .
Social media reaction to the video was predictably mixed , though the majority of commenters on Facebook and Twitter appeared to support the video -- and the women in it .
Many praised Air New Zealand for using beautiful women to promote the Cook Islands and complimented the airline on its marketing prowess , given the mass of media attention now being given to the safety video .
From the negative corner , while some commented they were appalled Air New Zealand would be so sexist , others said the Sports Illustrated version just is n't all that clever -- a disappointing follow up to the airline 's creative safety videos of the past .