( CNN ) -- Beyond skateboards , Silicon Valley and hippies , California has a trendsetting streak of a different kind .
The state has been first to pass major public health initiatives that have spread throughout the country .
California was first to require smog checks for clean air , pass anti - tobacco initiatives and bike helmets laws .
While these laws were met with skepticism and ridicule , they 've often become standard practice in other states .
The Golden State was first to ban smoking in workplaces , bars and restaurants in 1998 .
Now similar rules exist throughout the country .
Some advocates tout the state as a forward - thinking vanguard in which its health and safety laws are routinely emulated by other states .
" There have been progressive legislations in tobacco , environment and obesity prevention , " said Mark Horton , a lecturer at the University of California Berkeley School of Public Health .
" In some respect , the rest of the country looks to California as a laboratory for moving forward with those various types of initiatives . "
But some critics liken the Golden State to a nanny state .
California has 151,002 health and safety laws .
" It never ends , " said Laer Pearce , who works in public affairs in Orange County .
" Every year , several hundred bills come through and dozens of them tell us how to live our lives . "
Starting in January , 760 new California laws went into effect -- for example , the importing of shark fins is prohibited , student athletes are required to have medical clearance after suffering a head injury , teens are banned from using tanning booths and the sale of caffeinated beer is forbidden .
There 's a perception that California has " more folks who are health - oriented and more health - minded , " said Horton , former director of the California Department of Public Health .
It 's not just workout fanatics hanging out at Muscle Beach , Sierra Club members hiking mountains or the uber - health - conscious touting organic foods .
Californians in general tend to have healthier habits , ranking 10th for physical activity , fourth for healthy blood pressure and fifth for a diet high in fruits and vegetables compared with other states , according to America 's Health Rankings .