Before the mysterious disappearance of one of its passenger jets this month , Malaysia was n't a country used to finding itself dominating headlines around the world .
Some of its Southeast Asian neighbors , including Indonesia and the Philippines , have suffered devastating natural disasters in recent years and are all too familiar with the media frenzy that accompanies a major crisis .
But Malaysia has largely managed to stay out of the international spotlight since its independence from British colonial rule more than half a century ago .
" It is one of these countries , because of its geography , that does n't have earthquakes , " said Ernest Bower , senior adviser for Southeast Asia studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies .
" It does n't have tsunamis .
It has n't been tested with a disaster like this . "
The disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 has thrust the government into the dazzling glare of worldwide attention .
And it has n't emerged with very good grades .
" I think on a stress test , they 're failing , " Bower told CNN 's Jake Tapper , pointing to the government 's coordination of different agencies and communication with other countries .
China among critics Criticism and complaints have come from other countries involved in the search for the missing plane , including China and Vietnam , and from the relatives of passengers .
Malaysian officials have created confusion by issuing contradictory statements on key aspects of the investigation .
The majority of the people on board the plane were Chinese , and Beijing has increasingly voiced its displeasure with the search , especially after Malaysia announced over the weekend that evidence suggested the plane had been deliberately flown west into the Indian Ocean , away from its last confirmed location over the South China Sea .
" The new information means the intensive search in the South China Sea for the whole past week was worthless and would never bear fruit , " said a commentary published by China 's state - run news agency Xinhua .
" Even worse , the golden time for saving possible survivors , if any , was generously wasted . "