Grande dame of cooking still going strong at 90 : Julia Child celebrates in San Francisco .
How does it feel to turn 90 and have attained the status of an icon , a living legend ?
" It feels just like it felt before , " Julia Child says with the throaty laugh familiar to millions who cut their culinary teeth on her " French Chef " television series .
The show , along with her seminal book , " Mastering the Art of French Cooking " ( 1961 ) , revolutionized the way America cooks and eats .
While making light of the difference a day -- or another decade -- makes , Child intends to enjoy her birthday thoroughly .
First , there will be all the public observances , including a sold - out dinner Thursday at San Francisco 's tony Fifth Floor restaurant , which -- like dinners that night at 19 other venues across the country -- will benefit the scholarship fund of the International Association of Culinary Professionals ( which Child co - founded ) .
Friday to Sunday , the action moves to Napa , with both members - only and public events at COPIA : The American Center for Wine , Food and the Arts , of which she is an honorary board member .
Aug. 15 , her actual birthday , will see her in Maine at an annual gathering of nieces , nephews , their offspring and friends , who for many years have rolled a joined birthday celebration for several members of the group into a jolly reunion .
The schedule Child and her assistant of 14 years , former pastry chef Stephanie Hersh , have laid out is not exactly a senior - citizen routine , even though Child has always been candid about her age and realistic in assessing her own capabilities .
When the Pasadena native moved back to California from her long - time home in the Boston area last year , she also made the move from a condominium she and her late husband , Paul , had purchased many years ago to a progressive retirement home .
She is in the most active of the four levels available , but should the need arise , she can move on to assisted living facilities within the same complex .