( CNN ) -- Deposed Honduran President Jose Manuel Zelaya will not be reinstated as head of state , an overwhelming majority of the Honduran congress voted Wednesday .
In an hours - long process , 111 lawmakers voted in favor of a motion not to return Zelaya to office .
A majority of 65 votes in the 128-member body was required to reject his reinstatement .
Zelaya was removed from office in a military - led coup on June 28 and replaced by congressional leader Roberto Micheletti .
On Wednesday , lawmakers voted one by one and addressed the chamber as they cast their vote , making for a slow process .
The vote was a key part of a U.S.-brokered pact that representatives for Zelaya and Micheletti signed October 29 , giving Congress the power to decide Zelaya 's fate .
The United States expressed disappointment Thursday over the latest rebuff to its diplomatic efforts to end the political crisis in Honduras .
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs Arturo Valenzuela continued to call on the Honduran government to allow Zelaya 's return and to create a unity government in the interim period before the new president takes office next month .
" We are disappointed by this decision since the United States had hoped the [ Honduran ] Congress would have approved his return , " Valenzuela said in a conference call with journalists in Washington .
" Our policy since June 28 has been consistently principled .
It has condemned the coup d'etat and continued to accept President Zelaya as the democratically elected and legitimate leader of Honduras throughout this political crisis . "
The United States continues to call for Honduras to engage in national reconciliation and creation of a truth commission to investigate the crisis , in addition to the unity government .
" The absence of democratic , constitutional order is the unacceptable status quo , " a senior U.S. administration official said on the conference call , remaining anonymous under the ground rules of the call and because of the sensitivity of the situation .
" The election is a step toward a day where Honduras will have an electorally legitimate government in place . "