Federal agents on Tuesday raided a South Florida office of Dr. Salomon Melgen , an eye doctor whose past issues with authorities had already entangled Sen. Robert Menendez .
With yellow crime tape strung up outside , men and women lugged box after box of materials from Melgen 's West Palm Beach office into awaiting minivans .
Both members of the federal Health and Human Services department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation took part in the search , which FBI Special Agent Michael Leverock said was the second at the same Melgen clinic -- the other coming last January .
" As this is part of an ongoing investigation , ( authorities have ) no further comment / information at this time , " said Leverock .
That means no official details as to what authorities were looking for .
Even if it has nothing to do with his record as a generous political donor , Tuesday 's raid suggests Melgen 's legal troubles and perhaps their negative impact on Menendez , the senior U.S. senator from New Jersey are far from over .
Confessions show sex claims were ' false smears , ' senator says The doctor 's lawyer contended that Tuesday 's search was the government 's way of getting back at Melgen , after he sued over Medicare payments .
Even so , Matthew Menchel , the attorney , said that Melgen will continue to work with authorities .
" While we believe that today 's intrusion was in retaliation and there was no legitimate need for the search , the FBI 's actions will not prevent Dr. Melgen from continuing his full cooperation with the government , " Menchel said .
The doctor first came to the attention of many around Washington when The Daily Caller , a conservative website , published a report shortly before the November 2012 election citing several Dominican women who claimed they 'd had sex with Menendez for money .
The New Jersey Democrat staunchly denied the accusation .
And in March , Dominican police announced three women had been paid to claim -- falsely -- that they had sex with Menendez .
While that part of the story died down , the episode raised questions about why and how Menendez admittedly flew to the Dominican Republic three times in 2010 on Melgen 's private plane .