LONDON , England ( CNN ) -- The most eagerly anticipated animated film this year hits big screens this weekend , as " The Simpsons Movie " opens worldwide .
The Screening Room spoke to creator Matt Groening and writer Al Jean in London about everyone 's favorite two - dimensional yellow family .
Simpsons supremo Matt Groening with his creations at the film 's premiere in Springfield , Vermont Matt Groening told the Screening Room that fans had driven the demand for the movie .
" We 've had fans clamoring for a movie for the past 18 years , " he said .
The film has taken four years to come to fruition , as writer Al Jean explained .
" What really held us up for a long time was to have enough people to do the show and the movie , " he said .
" We talked for a while about doing the movie after the show is done , but the show is never done !
So it really started in earnest in 2003 , when we started working on this story that became the movie . "
Technology has also played its part .
Jean continued , " The technology to do this film really was n't even around five years ago .
For example , there was this joke I once pitched and David Silverman , the director , started drawing and as I was pitching it , it went into the film and it was cut a day later .
To go from pitch to cut in two days is pretty impressive . "
Its creators hope that " The Simpsons Movie " will both satisfy long - term fans and bring Homer and Marge 's family to a new audience .
Groening told the Screening Room , " This movie is designed to both honor the people who have loved the show all this time , so there 's lots of little details for them in the movie , little characters and stuff who they know and love , but we also want people who do n't know the family to not be completely confused .
It is a complete movie experience , but again , we have a lot of little details that only the really , true die - hard fans are going to get . "
And fans can expect to be entertained by plenty of cartoon mishaps .
Groening said , " When you see somebody fall off the roof in a live - action film , it 's funny -- we all love it .
But it 's not as funny as when Homer falls off the roof .