( CNN ) -- Three human heads and three decapitated bodies with notes aimed at high government officials were found Thursday in different parts of Guatemala 's capital , national police said .
The notes were addressed to Interior Minister Carlos Menocal and Eddy Morales , the nation 's director of prisons .
One of the notes said the officials must impose order in the nation 's prisons or these atrocities would continue , police said .
The other said that impunity against lawlessness must end , according to police .
The heads were inside plastic bags , one of them in front of the main doors to the national Congress in Guatemala City , police said .
" That 's obviously a first for Guatemala , " said Samuel Logan , an expert on Latin American gangs and founding editor of the Southern Pulse intelligence report .
" That 's something we 've seen the Zetas ( drug cartel ) do in Mexico . "
Donald Gonzalez , a spokesman for the national police , attributed the slayings to the Zetas or another narcotrafficking group , the Prensa Libre newspaper reported .
Gonzalez did not immediately return a phone call seeking comment .
Logan did not discount the possibility that anti - crime vigilantes could have been responsible .
" It could also be death squads , " he said .
" Off - duty police officers or other types hired by local businessmen who say , ' Go after the street gangs . '
" There 's a lot of moving parts to this story , " said Logan , who recently wrote a book on the Mara Salvatrucha gang of Central America and is working on a book about the Zetas , which has emerged as Mexico 's most ruthless drug cartel .
Logan said in an interview last year that there are two main criminal elements in Guatemala : drug cartels that deal in large - scale exportation and street gangs that sell drugs at the retail level and are involved in other crimes , such as robbery and extortion .
In some cases , they work together .
When those criminals get arrested , they continue their activities inside prison , said Fernando Carrera Castro , director of the Central American Institute for Fiscal Studies in Guatemala City .