( CNN ) -- The Australian government has admitted it has 153 people , including children , in custody at sea while it fights a High Court challenge to any plans to send them back to Sri Lanka .
Until Tuesday 's court hearing in Melbourne , the government had refused to confirm or deny it was holding the suspected asylum seekers , in line with its policy of not commenting on operational matters under " Operation Sovereign Borders . "
All those on board are thought to be Tamils who left the Indian port of Pondicherry on a 72-foot boat in mid - June .
They include three - year - old Febrina , whose image was released by a worried relative who has n't heard from his family for more than a week .
" I am desperate to know where my family is .
I ca n't function at all not knowing .
I know all of them would be in very big trouble if sent back to Sri Lanka , " he said , via an interpreter to the Tamil Refugee Council in Australia , before Tuesday 's hearing .
The government launched Operation Sovereign Borders last September , a military - led campaign to " stop the boats , " referring to a steady stream of vessels crammed with asylum seekers trying to make it to Australian waters .
Critics , including human rights campaigners , have slammed the policy , which advocates " turn - backs " and the offshore processing of asylum claims , as cruel and unnecessary .
' Culture of secrecy ' On Tuesday , they also took aim at the " culture of secrecy , " which created days of uncertainty for family members whose relatives were presumably lost at sea , and resulted in a vacuum of official information to back up claims that a boat had gone missing .
" It took getting a case to the High Court before the government would admit that they did have those people in custody and that they were on the high seas , that 's not good enough , " said Ian Rintoul , from the Refugee Action Coalition .
David Manne , Executive Director of the Refugee and Immigration Legal Center ( RILC ) , said the government 's silence raised " profound concerns " about whether their rights and Australia 's obligations under international law were being breached .