( CNN ) -- Since the bombing of the Boston marathon -- in which three people , including a child , were killed and more than 200 injured -- attention has naturally focused on what could have been done to prevent it .
Some , such as Rep. Peter King , the New York Republican who chairs the Homeland Security Committee , have argued for increased surveillance of Muslims in the United States .
Local police departments " have to realize that the threat is coming from the Muslim community and increase surveillance there , " he says .
Others have asked whether leads were properly followed and if better sharing of information between agencies would have helped thwart the bombing .
However , the government , with its $ 40 billion annual intelligence budget , already amasses vast quantities of information on the private lives of Muslims in the United States .
The FBI has 3,000 intelligence analysts working on counterterrorism and 15,000 paid informants , according to Mother Jones .
Exactly how many of them are focused on Muslims in the United States is unknown ; there is little transparency in this area .
But , given the emphasis the FBI has placed on preventing Muslim terrorism , and based on my interviews with FBI agents working on counterterrorism , there could be as many as two - thirds assigned to spying on Muslims .
Taking the usual estimate of the Muslim population in the United States of 2.35 million , this would mean the FBI has a spy for every 200 Muslims in the United States .
When one adds the resources of the National Security Agency , regional intelligence fusion centers , and the counterterrorism work of local police departments , such as the New York Police Department ( where a thousand officers are said to work on counterterrorism and intelligence ) , the number of spies per Muslim may increase dramatically .
East Germany 's communist - era secret police , the Stasi , had one intelligence analyst or informant for every 66 citizens .
This suggests that Muslims in the United States could be approaching levels of state surveillance similar to that which the East German population faced from the Stasi .
Yet , as the Stasi itself eventually discovered , no system of surveillance can ever produce total knowledge of a population .
Indeed , the greater the amount of information collected , the harder it is to interpret its meaning .
In the majority of terrorist attacks in recent years , the relevant information was somewhere in the government 's systems , but its significance was lost amid a morass of useless data .
What is obscured by the demands for ever greater surveillance and information processing is that security is best established through relationships of trust and inclusion within the community .
The real missed opportunity to intervene before the bombs went off in Boston likely came three months earlier , when bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev stood up during a Friday prayer service at his mosque - the Islamic Society of Boston , in Cambridge - to angrily protest the imam 's sermon .
The imam had been celebrating the life of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. , which Tsarnaev thought was selling out .