Tokhtakhounov , whose age was given by Comey as 53 or 62 , is a " major figure in international Eurasian organized crime , " Comey said .
Born in Tashkent , Uzbekistan , and now a Russian citizen , he is known as Taivanchik , or Little Taiwanese , for his Central Asian ethnic background .
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union , he has been implicated in arms trading and Russian art smuggling , and in the Russian news media he was accused of complicity in a plot to extort $ 10 million from the head of a Russian sports foundation .
He appears to have moved to France in 1989 , according to news media reports , and is reported to have Israeli citizenship also .
Comey said Tokhtakhounov had three residences in Italy : Forte dei Marmi , Rome and Milan .
The complaint against Tokhtakhounov 's traces his contact with figure skating to 2000 , when he proposed to Gailhaguet the creation of a professional hockey team in Paris that would provide revenue for the French Skating Federation .
( Gailhaguet and Anissina are not referred to by name in an accompanying FBI agent 's affidavit , but by their descriptions their identities are obvious . ) In return , Gailhaguet told the FBI on Feb. 23 as the Olympics were taking place , Tokhtakhounov asked for Gailhaguet 's help in renewing his French visa , which was about to expire .
But when Gailhaguet sought guidance from a French government official , he was told that " Tokhtakhounov 's money is bad , " the affidavit said .
The federal complaint offers many details of the alleged conspiracy , including excerpts from a transcript of the Italian wiretaps .
later suspended Le Gougne and Gailhaguet for three years .
The federal complaint did not describe the possibility of a wider conspiracy or any contact between Tokhtakhounov , or his unnamed co - conspirators , with Le Gougne .
" We have alleged no connection between this man with any officials other than with Russian federation officials , " James B. Comey , the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York , said at a news conference .
He said that Tokhtakhounov " reached out to a co - conspirator , somebody connected to the Russian Skating Federation , who did the legwork for him . "