( CNN)Opening statements begin Tuesday in the trial of Kendrick Johnson 's parents in a case growing increasingly controversial after reports that a Georgia judge had the media removed from his courtroom .
Exactly what happened is unclear , as The Valdosta Daily Times reported that its reporter , a citizen journalist and two television reporters were escorted out of the courtroom by a Lowndes County Sheriff 's Office deputy who said she was following State Court Judge Mark Mitchell 's order and offered no further explanation .
However , the Johnsons ' attorney , Chevene King , said that only CNN affiliate WCTV - TV had its reporter booted from the courtroom .
WCTV had no reporting to that effect on its website , nor did CNN affiliate WTXL - TV .
A clerk in Mitchell 's office referred questions to Lowndes County Clerk Beth Copeland Green , who had not returned messages as of late Tuesday afternoon .
Mitchell , a judge from Thomas County , is presiding over the case after Lowndes County Superior Court judges recused themselves from all proceedings involving the Johnsons in order to maintain fairness .
Johnson 's mother and father , along with five other relatives , are in court on misdemeanor charges related to a 2013 protest .
Jury selection wrapped up Monday , and opening statements were scheduled to begin at 9 a.m.
Tuesday .
One black juror and five whites compose the six - man jury , WCTV reported .
The alternate is also black , the station said .
The " KJ 7 , " as the defendants are known , each face a charge of interference with government property for allegedly blocking the entrance to the Lowndes County Courthouse in Valdosta and blocking access to the security checkpoint inside the building .
The demonstration was planned after Johnson 's parents became frustrated with the lack of information they had received from local investigators regarding their son , who was found dead inside a rolled gym mat at his South Georgia high school in January 2013 , King said .
Footage published on YouTube shows authorities arresting family members who held hands , blocking a door to the courthouse .
Another video posted to a Kendrick Johnson tribute page on Facebook shows family members later , inside the courthouse , joining hands in front of the checkpoint .
The family and others can be heard chanting , " No justice , no peace , " as officers step in to arrest them .