This week , we 've been treated to the increasingly familiar sight of former NBA star and provocateur Dennis Rodman attending events in Pyongyang , North Korea .
It 's his fourth trip in less than 12 months .
On Tuesday , an angry Rodman defended his visit in a CNN interview straight from Pyongyang , at one point saying to " New Day " anchor Chris Cuomo , " I do n't give a rat 's ass what the hell you think ... "
in response to question about Kenneth Bae , an American detained in North Korea .
When will we tire of this circus ?
In case you do n't watch cable news , you might miss that the media really loves this kind of thing .
No story about North Korea is too weird to go unreported , even if there is no real information to disseminate .
Recall the recent rumor that Kim Jong Un 's uncle was executed by being fed to hungry dogs , which most likely was started as satire on Chinese social media but was at first reported widely in the media ( CNN was unable to confirm and did not report the story ) .
In media discourse , North Korea is the classic enemy .
The regime 's injustices , quirks and dysfunctions are reassuring to Americans that their own country is just the opposite : Normal , well - functioning , a land of peace and liberty .
But add in Rodman to the North Korea story , and it 's bound to produce eye - popping headlines : The Weird American Athlete Goes to Weird Country story is just too easy not to cover .
Rodman himself seems to be thriving on finding a strange smidgen of relevance through his visits to North Korea ( and perhaps a Paddy Power paycheck ) .
Though often described as quite shy , he has always enjoyed challenging the values of Middle America .
North Korea is providing him a new avenue to be in the spotlight .
The most passive player in this tragicomedy is Rodman 's home country , the United States .
The U.S. State Department has deployed the rhetorical equivalent of an embarrassed teenager whose dad has shown up to dance at his prom .
Something along the lines of " this has nothing to do with us " is what the State Department has said with every one of Rodman 's trip .
Last winter , the State Department criticized Rodman 's timing as it followed a nuclear test and rocket launch .