Critics say that is not nearly enough compared with other prescribers , such as M.D. psychiatrists or nurse practitioners who have at least six years ' medical education and clinical experience .
Neither Davison nor most other RxP opponents doubt the efficacy of medications .
Their greatest objection is to the notion of turning psychology into a prescribing profession .
In a field that has struggled long and hard to prove that mind , mood and behavior can be studied empirically , the past decade , Davison says , has seen " exciting developments " that demonstrate the validity of various psychotherapeutic interventions and the psychosocial - behavioral models on which they are based .
" The timing is peculiar to abandon psychological science or to convert it to a medical science , " explains Elaine M. Heiby of the University of Hawaii , who chairs a committee of the 1,000-member American Association of Applied and Preventive Psychology that is concerned about the medicalization of psychology .
" Making sure that practicing psychologists are giving patients interventions based on the best available psychological science should be the APA 's priority , " argues Emory University 's Scott Lilienfeld , president of the Society for a Science of Clinical Psychology ( SSCP ) .
More than any philosophical betrayal of psychology , RxP opponents fear that the movement will undermine the science they love .
They believe that if prescriptive authority becomes the norm , biomedical requirements will inevitably seep into the psychology curriculum , at the expense of traditional psychological science and methodology .
Lilienfeld feels that many clinical psychologists already receive inadequate training in fundamentals such as research design and evaluation .
RxP opponents charge the APA with pushing its prescription - privileges agenda without adequately assessing support for it in the field .
The 300-member SSCP is the only group within the APA to have taken a formal stance against prescription privileges .
The APA has scheduled 30 minutes at its meeting in August for an RxP debate , but its leadership believes it already has an accurate sense of support for its RxP policy .
" Except for this small vocal minority , we have just not gotten a lot of groundswell against this from members , " says APA president Philip G. Zimbardo of Stanford University .
With prescription privileges now a reality in one state , some RxP opponents concede that it may be too late .
This year four states besides New Mexico -- Georgia , Hawaii , Illinois and Tennessee -- have pending legislation for psychologist prescription privileges .
Over the past decade , 14 state legislatures have considered such laws .
Between 1991 and 1997 , a U.S. Department of Defense psychopharmacology demonstration project involving two to four years ' training produced 10 military psychologists who can write prescriptions .