The 1933 double eagle , a $ 20 gold piece with a mysterious history that involves a president , a king and a Secret Service sting operation , was auctioned Tuesday last night for a record price for a coin , $ 7.59 million , nearly double the previous record .
The anonymous buyer , believed to be an individual collector who lives in the United States , made the winning bid in a fiercely contested nine - minute auction at Sotheby 's in Manhattan .
Eight bidders were joined by 500 coin collectors and dealers in an auction house audience seemingly devoid of celebrity bidders , while an additional 534 observers followed the bidding on eBay .
As auction houses prepare for their fall seasons in an uncertain economy , the sale price " suggests that the marketplace for important items is enormously strong , " said David Redden , a vice chairman at Sotheby 's , who was the auctioneer .
" This is an astonishing new record for a coin , " he said .
In an unprecedented move , the auction proceeds were split by the U.S. Mint and a London coin dealer , Stephen Fenton , who had won that right in court after having been arrested by Secret Service agents for trying to sell the coin in the Waldorf - Astoria Hotel in Manhattan in 1996 .
Henrietta Holsman Fore , the director of the U.S. Mint , who witnessed the sale , said , " The monies we receive will go toward helping to pay down the debt and to fight the war on terrorism . "
Fenton commented that the double eagle had been on " a long historic journey , with a very satisfying ending . "
He added , " I am thrilled with the price . "
The previous numismatic record holder was an 1804 U.S. silver dollar , which sold for $ 4.14 million in 1999 .
Sotheby 's partner in the one - lot auction was Stack 's Rare Coins , with which it shared the customary 15 percent commission .
" I have never seen as much interest in the sale of any coin in my 30 years in the business , " said Lawrence R. Stack , the company 's managing director .
" This is the Mona Lisa of coins , " said Beth Deisher , editor of Coin World , the largest weekly coin publication in the United States , with a circulation of 85,000 .
" It is unique .
Forbidden fruit . "
Collectors ' Web sites have surged with speculation about the sale price , and enthusiasts even organized betting pools .