New York ( CNN ) -- Three defendants pleaded guilty in federal court Wednesday to conspiring to defraud a Holocaust reparations organization out of $ 57.3 million , according to court documents .
Genrikh Kolontyrskiy , Moysey Kucher and Dora Kucher , all of Brooklyn , helped produce and process some of the thousands of fraudulent applications for the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany that are under investigation .
The organization , also known as the Claims Conference , distributes more than $ 400 million a year from funds provided by the German government to victims of the Holocaust .
" Our efforts to hold to account all of the individuals who participated in defrauding an organization that exists solely for the purpose of aiding victims of Nazi atrocities continues , " said Preet Bharara , U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York , in a statement .
The defendants aided in defrauding two funds managed by the Claims Conference , the Article 2 Fund and the Hardship Fund , of $ 45 million and $ 12.3 million , respectively , according to court documents .
The Article 2 Fund makes monthly payments of around $ 400 to survivors of Nazi persecution who make less than $ 16,000 per year " and either lived in hiding or under a false identity for at least 18 months , " according to a news release from the U.S. Attorney 's office .
The Hardship Fund pays a one - time payment of $ 3,500 to " victims of Nazi persecution who evacuated the cities in which they lived and were forced to become refugees . "
Kolontyrskiy , 80 , knowingly processed fraudulent applications for payment while employed with the Article 2 Fund , according to court documents .
Moysey Kucher , 66 , and Dora Kucher , 58 , recruited individuals to provide identification documents that were used to prepare fraudulent applications for both funds , in exchange for money paid out to the false applicants , according to court documents .
Jesse Siegel , Kolontyrskiy 's attorney , said his client was by no means a major instigator , but he takes responsibility for his actions .