U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell arrived here on Tuesday night for meetings with fellow foreign ministers aimed at solidifying a second front , in Southeast Asia , in the campaign against global terrorism .
But he has had to balance that goal with longstanding concerns about human rights abuses in the region .
In meetings on Tuesday in Malaysia and Singapore before touching down in this oil - producing sultanate for two days of talks with members of the Association of South East Asian Nations , Powell said he repeatedly raised the issue .
" We still believe strongly in human rights , and that everything we do has to be consistent with universal standards of human rights , " he said .
But at a news conference in Singapore , Powell hinted that the Bush administration was ready to discuss resuming military cooperation with Indonesia , the world 's most populous Muslim nation and a sometimes reluctant partner in the efforts to crack down on militant Islamic groups .
The United States cut virtually all military links with Indonesia in 1999 after its forces were implicated in the violence that swept East Timor after that territory voted for independence .
On Thursday , Powell and representatives of the nations of the Asian group , including Indonesia , are expected to sign a declaration promising cooperation to prevent terrorism by sharing information , blocking funds , tightening borders and making it hard to use forged travel papers .
" We recognized that terrorism is a global threat and that the disturbing acts of terrorism and transnational crimes , which continue to threaten world peace and stability , must be tackled by the international community , " the ministers said in a communique on Tuesday .
Powell is among the representatives from 13 nations outside Southeast Asia , including China , Japan and Russia , that are taking part in the annual meeting of the group 's regional forum .
Terrorism dominates the agenda , though the possibility of a meeting here between Powell and his North Korean counterpart , Paek Nam Sun , has generated the most news .
It would be the highest - level contact between the United States and North Korea since President Bush took office .
Powell heads to Indonesia 's capital , Jakarta , late on Thursday before finishing a weeklong trip through the region in the Philippines on Saturday .
He said that when he arrives in Jakarta , he will have " some ideas and some initiatives " to present to President Megawati Sukarnoputri .
Indonesia is already receiving $ 400,000 in the current fiscal year for civilian training programs and is to receive a like amount next year ; and the United States expects to provide an additional $ 16 million this year to train police officers in counterterrorism .
At the same time , the Pentagon is reviewing how to allocate another $ 17 million in " counterterrorism fellowships , " some of which could go to Indonesia .
But a senior State Department official also acknowledged that some in the administration and Congress are pushing for more direct military cooperation , which would require congressional approval .
" I think they recognize the danger that we all face and I think they have been cooperating more fully with us as time goes by , and I 'm quite sure that Mrs. Megawati is committed to this cause , " Powell said in Singapore .
He met there with Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong , who endorsed the idea of renewed military ties between the United States and Indonesia as an important step in stabilizing that country .