According to the radar reconstruction , American 77 reemerged as a primary target on Indianapolis Center radar scopes at 9:05 , east of its last known position .
The target remained in Indianapolis Center 's airspace for another six minutes , then crossed into the western portion of Washington Center 's airspace at 9:10 .
As Indianapolis Center continued searching for the aircraft , two managers and the controller responsible for American 77 looked to the west and southwest along the flight 's projected path , not east - where the aircraft was now heading .
Managers did not instruct other controllers at Indianapolis Center to turn on their primary radar coverage to join in the search for American 77 .
In sum , Indianapolis Center never saw Flight 77 turn around .
By the time it reappeared in primary radar coverage , controllers had either stopped looking for the aircraft because they thought it had crashed or were looking toward the west .
Although the Command Center learned Flight 77 was missing , neither it nor FAA headquarters issued an all points bulletin to surrounding centers to search for primary radar targets .
American 77 traveled undetected for 36 minutes on a course heading due east for Washington , D.C. By 9:25 , FAA 's Herndon Command Center and FAA headquarters knew two aircraft had crashed into the World Trade Center .
They knew American 77 was lost .
At least some FAA officials in Boston Center and the New England Region knew that a hijacker on board American 11 had said " we have some planes . "
Concerns over the safety of other aircraft began to mount .
A manager at the Herndon Command Center asked FAA headquarters if they wanted to order a " nationwide ground stop . "
While this was being discussed by executives at FAA headquarters , the Command Center ordered one at 9:25 .
The Command Center kept looking for American 77 .
At 9:21 , it advised the Dulles terminal control facility , and Dulles urged its controllers to look for primary targets .
At 9:32 , they found one .
Several of the Dulles controllers " observed a primary radar target tracking eastbound at a high rate of speed " and notified Reagan National Airport .
FAA personnel at both Reagan National and Dulles airports notified the Secret Service .