The second major point on which the principals had agreed on March 10 was the need to crack down on terrorist organizations and curtail their fund - raising .
The embassy bombings of 1998 had focused attention on al Qaeda 's finances .
One result had been the creation of an NSC - led interagency committee on terrorist financing .
On its recommendation , the President had designated Bin Laden and al Qaeda as subject to sanctions under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act .
This gave theTreasury Department 's Office of Foreign Assets Control ( OFAC ) the ability to search for and freeze any Bin Laden or al Qaeda assets that reached the U.S. financial system .
But since OFAC had little information to go on , few funds were frozen .
In July 1999 , the President applied the same designation to the Taliban for harboring Bin Laden .
Here , OFAC had more success .
It blocked more than $ 34 million in Taliban assets held in U.S. banks .
Another $ 215 million in gold and $ 2 million in demand deposits , all belonging to the Afghan central bank and held by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , were also frozen .
After October 1999 , when the State Department formally designated al Qaeda a " foreign terrorist organization , " it became the duty of U.S. banks to block its transactions and seize its funds .
Neither this designation nor UN sanctions had much additional practical effect ; the sanctions were easily circumvented , and there were no multilateral mechanisms to ensure that other countries ' financial systems were not used as conduits for terrorist funding .
Attacking the funds of an institution , even the Taliban , was easier than finding and seizing the funds of a clandestine worldwide organization like al Qaeda .
Although the CIA 's Bin Laden unit had originally been inspired by the idea of studying terrorist financial links , few personnel assigned to it had any experience in financial investigations .
Any terrorist - financing intelligence appeared to have been collected collaterally , as a consequence of gathering other intelligence .
This attitude may have stemmed in large part from the chief of this unit , who did not believe that simply following the money from point A to point B revealed much about the terrorists ' plans and intentions .
As a result , the CIA placed little emphasis on terrorist financing .
Nevertheless , the CIA obtained a general understanding of how al Qaeda raised money .