Before 9/11 , the CIA did not invest in developing a robust capability to conduct paramilitary operations with U.S. personnel .
It relied on proxies instead , organized by CIA operatives without the requisite military training .
The results were unsatisfactory .
Whether the price is measured in either money or people , the United States can not afford to build two separate capabilities for carrying out secret military operations , secretly operating standoff missiles , and secretly training foreign military or paramilitary forces .
The United States should concentrate responsibility and necessary legal authorities in one entity .
The post-9/11 Afghanistan precedent of using joint CIA - military teams for covert and clandestine operations was a good one .
We believe this proposal to be consistent with it .
Each agency would concentrate on its comparative advantages in building capabilities for joint missions .
The operation itself would be planned in common .
The CIA has a reputation for agility in operations .
The military has a reputation for being methodical and cumbersome .
We do not know if these stereotypes match current reality ; they may also be one more symptom of the civil - military misunderstandings we described in chapter 4 .
It is a problem to be resolved in policy guidance and agency management , not in the creation of redundant , overlapping capabilities and authorities in such sensitive work .
The CIA 's experts should be integrated into the military 's training , exercises , and planning .
To quote a CIA official now serving in the field:"One fight , one team . "
Finally , to combat the secrecy and complexity we have described , the overall amounts of money being appropriated for national intelligence and to its component agencies should no longer be kept secret .
Congress should pass a separate appropriations act for intelligence , defending the broad allocation of how these tens of billions of dollars have been assigned among the varieties of intelligence work .
The specifics of the intelligence appropriation would remain classified , as they are today .