While this process moved along , diplomacy continued its rounds .
Direct pressure on the Taliban had proved unsuccessful .
As one NSC staff note put it , " Under the Taliban , Afghanistan is not so much a state sponsor of terrorism as it is a state sponsored by terrorists . "
In early 2000 , the United States began a high - level effort to persuade Pakistan to use its influence over the Taliban .
In January 2000 , Assistant Secretary of State Karl Inderfurth and the State Department 's counterterrorism coordinator , Michael Sheehan , met with General Musharraf in Islamabad , dangling before him the possibility of a presidential visit in March as a reward for Pakistani cooperation .
Such a visit was coveted by Musharraf , partly as a sign of his government 's legitimacy .
He told the two envoys that he would meet with Mullah Omar and press him on Bin Laden .
They left , however , reporting to Washington that Pakistan was unlikely in fact to do anything , " given what it sees as the benefits of Taliban control of Afghanistan . "
President Clinton was scheduled to travel to India .
The State Department felt that he should not visit India without also visiting Pakistan .
The Secret Service and the CIA , however , warned in the strongest terms that visiting Pakistan would risk the President 's life .
Counterterrorism officials also argued that Pakistan had not done enough to merit a presidential visit .
But President Clinton insisted on including Pakistan in the itinerary for his trip to South Asia .
His one - day stopover on March 25 , 2000 , was the first time a U.S. president had been there since 1969 .
At his meeting with Musharraf and others , President Clinton concentrated on tensions between Pakistan and India and the dangers of nuclear proliferation , but also discussed Bin Laden .
President Clinton told us that when he pulled Musharraf aside for a brief , one - on - one meeting , he pleaded with the general for help regarding Bin Laden . "
I offered him the moon when I went to see him , in terms of better relations with the United States , if he 'd help us get Bin Laden and deal with another issue or two . "
The U.S. effort continued .