By early 1999 , al Qaeda was already a potent adversary of the United States .
Bin Laden and his chief of operations , Abu Hafs al Masri , also known as Mohammed Atef , occupied undisputed leadership positions atop al Qaeda 's organizational structure .
Within this structure , al Qaeda 's worldwide terrorist operations relied heavily on the ideas and work of enterprising and strongwilled field commanders who enjoyed considerable autonomy .
To understand how the organization actually worked and to introduce the origins of the 9/11 plot , we briefly examine three of these subordinate commanders : Khalid Sheikh Mohammed ( KSM ) , Riduan Isamuddin ( better known as Hambali ) , and Abd al Rahim al Nashiri .
We will devote the most attention to Khalid Sheikh Mohammed , the chief manager of the " planes operation . "
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed No one exemplifies the model of the terrorist entrepreneur more clearly than Khalid Sheikh Mohammed , the principal architect of the 9/11 attacks .
KSM followed a rather tortuous path to his eventual membership in al Qaeda .
Highly educated and equally comfortable in a government office or a terrorist safehouse , KSM applied his imagination , technical aptitude , and managerial skills to hatching and planning an extraordinary array of terrorist schemes .
These ideas included conventional car bombing , political assassination , aircraft bombing , hijacking , reservoir poisoning , and , ultimately , the use of aircraft as missiles guided by suicide operatives .
Like his nephew Ramzi Yousef ( three years KSM 's junior ) , KSM grew up in Kuwait but traces his ethnic lineage to the Baluchistan region straddling Iran and Pakistan .
Raised in a religious family , KSM claims to have joined the Muslim Brotherhood at age 16 and to have become enamored of violent jihad at youth camps in the desert .
In 1983 , following his graduation from secondary school , KSM left Kuwait to enroll at Chowan College , a small Baptist school in Murfreesboro , North Carolina .
After a semester at Chowan , KSM transferred to North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University in Greensboro , which he attended with Yousef 's brother , another future al Qaeda member .
KSM earned a degree in mechanical engineering in December 1986 .
Although he apparently did not attract attention for extreme Islamist beliefs or activities while in the United States , KSM plunged into the anti - Soviet Afghan jihad soon after graduating from college .
Visiting Pakistan for the first time in early 1987 , he traveled to Peshawar , where his brother Zahid introduced him to the famous Afghan mujahid Abdul Rasul Sayyaf , head of the Hizbul- Ittihad El - Islami ( Islamic Union Party ) .
Sayyaf became KSM 's mentor and provided KSM with military training at Sayyaf 's Sada camp .
KSM claims he then fought the Soviets and remained at the front for three months before being summoned to perform administrative duties for Abdullah Azzam .