As noted above , the 9/11 plotters spent somewhere between $ 400,000 and $ 500,000 to plan and conduct their attack .
The available evidence indicates that the 19 operatives were funded by al Qaeda , either through wire transfers or cash provided by KSM , which they carried into the United States or deposited in foreign accounts and accessed from this country .
Our investigation has uncovered no credible evidence that any person in the United States gave the hijackers substantial financial assistance .
Similarly , we have seen no evidence that any foreign government - or foreign government official - supplied any funding .
We have found no evidence that the Hamburg cell members ( Atta , Shehhi , Jarrah , and Binalshibh ) received funds from al Qaeda before late 1999 .
It appears they supported themselves .
KSM , Binalshibh , and another plot facilitator , Mustafa al Hawsawi , each received money , in some cases perhaps as much as $ 10,000 , to perform their roles in the plot .
After the Hamburg recruits joined the 9/11 conspiracy , al Qaeda began giving them money .
Our knowledge of the funding during this period , before the operatives entered the United States , remains murky .
According to KSM , the Hamburg cell members each received $ 5,000 to pay for their return to Germany from Afghanistan after they had been selected to join the plot , and they received additional funds for travel from Germany to the United States .
Financial transactions of the plotters are discussed in more detail in chapter 7 .
Requirements for a Successful Attack As some of the core operatives prepared to leave for the United States , al Qaeda 's leaders could have reflected on what they needed to be able to do in order to organize and conduct a complex international terrorist operation to inflict catastrophic harm .
We believe such a list of requirements would have included leaders able to evaluate , approve , and supervise the planning and direction of the operation ; communications sufficient to enable planning and direction of the operatives and those who would be helping them ; a personnel system that could recruit candidates , vet them , indoctrinate them , and give them necessary training ; an intelligence effort to gather required information and form assessments of enemy strengths and weaknesses ; the ability to move people ; and the ability to raise and move the necessary money .
The information we have presented about the development of the planes operation shows how , by the spring and summer of 2000 , al Qaeda was able to meet these requirements .
By late May 2000 , two operatives assigned to the planes operation were already in the United States .
Three of the four Hamburg cell members would soon arrive .