We do not know exactly how the hijackers gained access to the cockpit ; FAA rules required that the doors remain closed and locked during flight .
Ong speculated that they had " jammed their way " in .
Perhaps the terrorists stabbed the flight attendants to get a cockpit key , to force one of them to open the cockpit door , or to lure the captain or first officer out of the cockpit .
Or the flight attendants may just have been in their way .
At the same time or shortly thereafter , Atta - the only terrorist on board trained to fly a jet - would have moved to the cockpit from his business - class seat , possibly accompanied by Omari .
As this was happening , passenger Daniel Lewin , who was seated in the row just behind Atta and Omari , was stabbed by one of the hijackers - probably Satam al Suqami , who was seated directly behind Lewin .
Lewin had served four years as an officer in the Israeli military .
He may have made an attempt to stop the hijackers in front of him , not realizing that another was sitting behind him .
The hijackers quickly gained control and sprayed Mace , pepper spray , or some other irritant in the first - class cabin , in order to force the passengers and flight attendants toward the rear of the plane .
They claimed they had a bomb .
About five minutes after the hijacking began , Betty Ong contacted the American Airlines Southeastern Reservations Office in Cary , North Carolina , via an AT&T airphone to report an emergency aboard the flight .
This was the first of several occasions on 9/11 when flight attendants took action outside the scope of their training , which emphasized that in a hijacking , they were to communicate with the cockpit crew .
The emergency call lasted approximately 25 minutes , as Ong calmly and professionally relayed information about events taking place aboard the airplane to authorities on the ground .
At 8:19 , Ong reported:"The cockpit is not answering , somebody 's stabbed in business class - and I think there 's Mace - that we ca n't breathe - I do n't know , I think we 're getting hijacked . "
She then told of the stabbings of the two flight attendants .
At 8:21 , one of the American employees receiving Ong 's call in North Carolina , Nydia Gonzalez , alerted the American Airlines operations center in Fort Worth , Texas , reaching Craig Marquis , the manager on duty .
Marquis soon realized this was an emergency and instructed the airline 's dispatcher responsible for the flight to contact the cockpit .
At 8:23 , the dispatcher tried unsuccessfully to contact the aircraft .