Early in chapter 5 we introduced , along with Khalid Sheikh Mohammed , two other men who became operational coordinators for al Qaeda : Khallad and Nashiri .
As we explained , both were involved during 1998 and 1999 in preparing to attack a ship off the coast of Yemen with a boatload of explosives .
They had originally targeted a commercial vessel , specifically an oil tanker , but Bin Laden urged them to look for a U.S.warship instead .
In January 2000 , their team had attempted to attack a warship in the port of Aden , but the attempt failed when the suicide boat sank .
More than nine months later , on October 12,2000 , al Qaeda operatives in a small boat laden with explosives attacked a U.S. Navy destroyer , the USS Cole .
The blast ripped a hole in the side of the Cole , killing 17 members of the ship 's crew and wounding at least 40 .
The plot , we now know , was a full - fledged al Qaeda operation , supervised directly by Bin Laden .
He chose the target and location of the attack , selected the suicide operatives , and provided the money needed to purchase explosives and equipment .
Nashiri was the field commander and managed the operation in Yemen .
Khallad helped in Yemen until he was arrested in a case of mistaken identity and freed with Bin Laden 's help , as we also mentioned earlier .
Local al Qaeda coordinators included Jamal al Badawi and Fahd al Quso , who was supposed to film the attack from a nearby apartment .
The two suicide operatives chosen were Hassan al Khamri and Ibrahim al Thawar , also known as Nibras .
Nibras and Quso delivered money to Khallad in Bangkok during Khallad 's January 2000 trip to Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok .
In September 2000 , Bin Laden reportedly told Nashiri that he wanted to replace Khamri and Nibras .
Nashiri was angry and disagreed , telling others he would go to Afghanistan and explain to Bin Laden that the new operatives were already trained and ready to conduct the attack .
Prior to departing , Nashiri gave Nibras and Khamri instructions to execute the attack on the next U.S.warship that entered the port of Aden .