In chapters 3 and 4 we described how the U.S. government adjusted its existing agencies and capacities to address the emerging threat from Usama Bin Laden and his associates .
After the August 1998 bombings of the American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania , President Bill Clinton and his chief aides explored ways of getting Bin Laden expelled from Afghanistan or possibly capturing or even killing him .
Although disruption efforts around the world had achieved some successes , the core of Bin Laden 's organization remained intact .
President Clinton was deeply concerned about Bin Laden .
He and his national security advisor , Samuel " Sandy " Berger , ensured they had a special daily pipeline of reports feeding them the latest updates on Bin Laden 's reported location .
In public , President Clinton spoke repeatedly about the threat of terrorism , referring to terrorist training camps but saying little about Bin Laden and nothing about al Qaeda .
He explained to us that this was deliberate - intended to avoid enhancing Bin Laden 's stature by giving him unnecessary publicity .
His speeches focused especially on the danger of nonstate actors and of chemical and biological weapons .
As the millennium approached , the most publicized worries were not about terrorism but about computer breakdowns - the Y2 K scare .
Some government officials were concerned that terrorists would take advantage of such breakdowns .
On November 30 , 1999 , Jordanian intelligence intercepted a telephone call between Abu Zubaydah , a longtime ally of Bin Laden , and Khadr Abu Hoshar , a Palestinian extremist .
Abu Zubaydah said , " The time for training is over . "
Suspecting that this was a signal for Abu Hoshar to commence a terrorist operation , Jordanian police arrested Abu Hoshar and 15 others and informed Washington .
One of the 16 , Raed Hijazi , had been born in California to Palestinian parents ; after spending his childhood in the Middle East , he had returned to northern California , taken refuge in extremist Islamist beliefs , and then made his way to Abu Zubaydah 's Khaldan camp in Afghanistan , where he learned the fundamentals of guerrilla warfare .
He and his younger brother had been recruited by Abu Hoshar into a loosely knit plot to attack Jewish and American targets in Jordan .
After late 1996 , when Abu Hoshar was arrested and jailed , Hijazi moved back to the United States , worked as a cabdriver in Boston , and sent money back to his fellow plotters .
After Abu Hoshar 's release , Hijazi shuttled between Boston and Jordan gathering money and supplies .
With Abu Hoshar , he recruited inTurkey and Syria as well as Jordan ; with Abu Zubaydah 's assistance , Abu Hoshar sent these recruits to Afghanistan for training .