On May 29 , at Tenet 's request , Rice and Tenet converted their usual weekly meeting into a broader discussion on al Qaeda ; participants included Clarke , CTC chief Cofer Black , and " Richard , " a group chief with authority over the Bin Laden unit .
Rice asked about " taking the offensive " and whether any approach could be made to influence Bin Laden or the Taliban .
Clarke and Black replied that the CIA 's ongoing disruption activities were " taking the offensive " and that Bin Laden could not be deterred .
A wide - ranging discussion then ensued about " breaking the back " of Bin Laden 's organization .
Tenet emphasized the ambitious plans for covert action that the CIA had developed in December 2000 .
In discussing the draft authorities for this program in March , CIA officials had pointed out that the spending level envisioned for these plans was larger than the CIA 's entire current budget for counterterrorism covert action .
It would be a multiyear program , requiring such levels of spending for about five years .
The CIA official , " Richard , " told us that Rice " got it . "
He said she agreed with his conclusions about what needed to be done , although he complained to us that the policy process did not follow through quickly enough .
Clarke and Black were asked to develop a range of options for attacking Bin Laden 's organization , from the least to most ambitious .
Rice and Hadley asked Clarke and his staff to draw up the new presidential directive .
On June 7 , Hadley circulated the first draft , describing it as " an admittedly ambitious " program for confronting al Qaeda .
The draft NSPD 's goal was to " eliminate the al Qida network of terrorist groups as a threat to the United States and to friendly governments . "
It called for a multiyear effort involving diplomacy , covert action , economic measures , law enforcement , public diplomacy , and if necessary military efforts .
The State Department was to work with other governments to end all al Qaeda sanctuaries , and also to work with the Treasury Department to disrupt terrorist financing .
The CIA was to develop an expanded covert action program including significant additional funding and aid to anti - Taliban groups .
The draft also tasked OMB with ensuring that sufficient funds to support this program were found in U.S. budgets from fiscal years 2002 to 2006 .
Rice viewed this draft directive as the embodiment of a comprehensive new strategy employing all instruments of national power to eliminate the al Qaeda threat .