The Bush administration did not develop new diplomatic initiatives on al Qaeda with the Saudi government before 9/11 .
Vice President Cheney called Crown Prince Abdullah on July 5 , 2001 , to seek Saudi help in preventing threatened attacks on American facilities in the Kingdom .
Secretary of State Powell met with the crown prince twice before 9/11 .
They discussed topics like Iraq , not al Qaeda . U.S.-Saudi relations in the summer of 2001 were marked by sometimes heated disagreements about ongoing Israeli- Palestinian violence , not about Bin Laden .
The confirmation of the Pentagon 's new leadership was a lengthy process .
Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz was confirmed in March 2001 and Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Douglas Feith in July .
Though the new officials were briefed about terrorism and some of the earlier planning , including that for Operation Infinite Resolve , they were focused , as Secretary Rumsfeld told us , on creating a twenty - first - century military .
At the Joint Chiefs of Staff , General Shelton did not recall much interest by the new administration in military options against al Qaeda in Afghanistan .
He could not recall any specific guidance on the topic from the secretary .
Brian Sheridan - the outgoing assistant secretary of defense for special operations and low - intensity conflict ( SOLIC ) , the key counterterrorism policy office in the Pentagon - never briefed Rumsfeld .
He departed on January 20 ; he had not been replaced by 9/11 .
Rumsfeld noted to us his own interest in terrorism , which came up often in his regular meetings with Tenet .
He thought that the Defense Department , before 9/11 , was not organized adequately or prepared to deal with new threats like terrorism .
But his time was consumed with getting new officials in place and working on the foundation documents of a new defense policy , the quadrennial defense review , the defense planning guidance , and the existing contingency plans .
He did not recall any particular counterterrorism issue that engaged his attention before 9/11 , other than the development of the Predator unmanned aircraft system .
The commander of Central Command , General Franks , told us that he did not regard the existing plans as serious .
To him a real military plan to address al Qaeda would need to go all the way , following through the details of a full campaign ( including the political - military issues of where operations would be based ) and securing the rights to fly over neighboring countries .
The draft presidential directive circulated in June 2001 began its discussion of the military by reiterating the Defense Department 's lead role in protecting its forces abroad .