In short , the United States has to help defeat an ideology , not just a group of people , and we must do so under difficult circumstances .
How can the United States and its friends help moderate Muslims combat the extremist ideas ?
Recommendation : The U.S. government must define what the message is , what it stands for .
We should offer an example of moral leadership in the world , committed to treat people humanely , abide by the rule of law , and be generous and caring to our neighbors .
America and Muslim friends can agree on respect for human dignity and opportunity .
To Muslim parents , terrorists like Bin Laden have nothing to offer their children but visions of violence and death .
America and its friends have a crucial advantage - we can offer these parents a vision that might give their children a better future .
If we heed the views of thoughtful leaders in the Arab and Muslim world , a moderate consensus can be found .
That vision of the future should stress life over death : individual educational and economic opportunity .
This vision includes widespread political participation and contempt for indiscriminate violence .
It includes respect for the rule of law , openness in discussing differences , and tolerance for opposing points of view .
Recommendation : Where Muslim governments , even those who are friends , do not respect these principles , the United States must stand for a better future .
One of the lessons of the long Cold War was that short - term gains in cooperating with the most repressive and brutal governments were too often outweighed by long - term setbacks for America 's stature and interests .
American foreign policy is part of the message .
America 's policy choices have consequences .
Right or wrong , it is simply a fact that American policy regarding the Israeli - Palestinian conflict and American actions in Iraq are dominant staples of popular commentary across the Arab and Muslim world .
That does not mean U.S. choices have been wrong .
It means those choices must be integrated with America 's message of opportunity to the Arab and Muslim world .