He repeatedly calls on his followers to embrace martyrdom since " The walls of oppression and humiliation can not be demolished except in a rain of bullets . "
For those yearning for a lost sense of order in an older , more tranquil world , he offers his " Caliphate " as an imagined alternative to today 's uncertainty .
For others , he offers simplistic conspiracies to explain their world .
Bin Laden also relies heavily on the Egyptian writer Sayyid Qutb .
A member of the Muslim Brotherhood executed in 1966 on charges of attempting to overthrow the government , Qutb mixed Islamic scholarship with a very superficial acquaintance with Western history and thought .
Sent by the Egyptian government to study in the United States in the late 1940s , Qutb returned with an enormous loathing of Western society and history .
He dismissed Western achievements as entirely material , arguing that Western society possesses " nothing that will satisfy its own conscience and justify its existence . "
Three basic themes emerge from Qutb 's writings .
First , he claimed that the world was beset with barbarism , licentiousness , and unbelief ( a condition he called jahiliyya , the religious term for the period of ignorance prior to the revelations given to the Prophet Mohammed ) .
Qutb argued that humans can choose only between Islam and jahiliyya .
Second , he warned that more people , including Muslims , were attracted to jahiliyya and its material comforts than to his view of Islam ; jahiliyya could therefore triumph over Islam .
Third , no middle ground exists in what Qutb conceived as a struggle between God and Satan .
All Muslims - as he defined them - therefore must take up arms in this fight .
Any Muslim who rejects his ideas is just one more nonbeliever worthy of destruction .
Bin Laden shares Qutb 's stark view , permitting him and his followers to rationalize even unprovoked mass murder as righteous defense of an embattled faith .
Many Americans have wondered , " Why do ' they ' hate us ? "
Some also ask , " What can we do to stop these attacks ? "
Bin Laden and al Qaeda have given answers to both these questions .