During the transition , Bush had chosen John Ashcroft , a former senator from Missouri , as his attorney general .
On his arrival at the Justice Department , Ashcroft told us , he faced a number of problems spotlighting the need for reform at the FBI .
In February , Clarke briefed Attorney General Ashcroft on his directorate 's issues .
He reported that at the time , the attorney general acknowledged a " steep learning curve , " and asked about the progress of the Cole investigation .
Neither Ashcroft nor his predecessors received the President 's Daily Brief .
His office did receive the daily intelligence report for senior officials that , during the spring and summer of 2001 , was carrying much of the same threat information .
The FBI was struggling to build up its institutional capabilities to do more against terrorism , relying on a strategy called MAXCAP 05 that had been unveiled in the summer of 2000 .
The FBI 's assistant director for counterterrorism , Dale Watson , told us that he felt the new Justice Department leadership was not supportive of the strategy .
Watson had the sense that the Justice Department wanted the FBI to get back to the investigative basics : guns , drugs , and civil rights .
The new administration did seek an 8 percent increase in overall FBI funding in its initial budget proposal for fiscal year 2002 , including the largest proposed percentage increase in the FBI 's counterterrorism program since fiscal year 1997 .
The additional funds included the FBI 's support of the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City , Utah ( a onetime increase ) , enhanced security at FBI facilities , and improvements to the FBI 's WMD incident response capability .
In May , the Justice Department began shaping plans for building a budget for fiscal year 2003 , the process that would usually culminate in an administration proposal at the beginning of 2002 .
On May 9 , the attorney general testified at a congressional hearing concerning federal efforts to combat terrorism .
He said that " one of the nation 's most fundamental responsibilities is to protect its citizens from terrorist attacks . "
The budget guidance issued the next day , however , highlighted gun crimes , narcotics trafficking , and civil rights as priorities .