In February 1998 , the 40-year - old Saudi exile Usama Bin Laden and a fugitive Egyptian physician , Ayman al Zawahiri , arranged from their Afghan headquarters for an Arabic newspaper in London to publish what they termed a fatwa issued in the name of a " World Islamic Front . "
A fatwa is normally an interpretation of Islamic law by a respected Islamic authority , but neither Bin Laden , Zawahiri , nor the three others who signed this statement were scholars of Islamic law .
Claiming that America had declared war against God and his messenger , they called for the murder of any American , anywhere on earth , as the " individual duty for every Muslim who can do it in any country in which it is possible to do it . "
Three months later , when interviewed in Afghanistan by ABC - TV , Bin Laden enlarged on these themes .
He claimed it was more important for Muslims to kill Americans than to kill other infidels . "
It is far better for anyone to kill a single American soldier than to squander his efforts on other activities , " he said .
Asked whether he approved of terrorism and of attacks on civilians , he replied:"We believe that the worst thieves in the world today and the worst terrorists are the Americans .
Nothing could stop you except perhaps retaliation in kind .
We do not have to differentiate between military or civilian .
As far as we are concerned , they are all targets . "
Note : Islamic names often do not follow the Western practice of the consistent use of surnames .
Given the variety of names we mention , we chose to refer to individuals by the last word in the names by which they are known : Nawaf al Hazmi as Hazmi , for instance , omitting the article " al " that would be part of their name in their own societies .
We generally make an exception for the more familiar English usage of " Bin " as part of a last name , as in Bin Laden .
Further , there is no universally accepted way to transliterate Arabic words and names into English .
We have relied on a mix of common sense , the sound of the name in Arabic , and common usage in source materials , the press , or government documents .
When we quote from a source document , we use its transliteration , e.g.,"al Qida " instead of al Qaeda .
Though novel for its open endorsement of indiscriminate killing , Bin Laden 's 1998 declaration was only the latest in the long series of his public and private calls since 1992 that singled out the United States for attack .
In August 1996 , Bin Laden had issued his own self - styled fatwa calling on Muslims to drive American soldiers out of Saudi Arabia .