The after - action review had treated the CIA as the lead agency for any offensive against al Qaeda , and the principals , at their March 10 meeting , had endorsed strengthening the CIA 's capability for that role .
To the CTC , that meant proceeding with " The Plan , " which it had put forward half a year earlier - hiring and training more case officers and building up the capabilities of foreign security services that provided intelligence via liaison .
On occasion , as in Jordan in December 1999 , these liaison services took direct action against al Qaeda cells .
In the CTC and higher up , the CIA 's managers believed that they desperately needed funds just to continue their current counterterrorism effort , for they reckoned that the millennium alert had already used up all of the Center 's funds for the current fiscal year ; the Bin Laden unit had spent 140 percent of its allocation .
Tenet told us he met with Berger to discuss funding for counterterrorism just two days after the principals ' meeting .
While Clarke strongly favored giving the CIA more money for counterterrorism , he differed sharply with the CIA 's managers about where it should come from .
They insisted that the CIA had been shortchanged ever since the end of the Cold War .
Their ability to perform any mission , counterterrorism included , they argued , depended on preserving what they had , restoring what they had lost since the beginning of the 1990s , and building from there - with across - the - board recruitment and training of new case officers , and the reopening of closed stations .
To finance the counterterrorism effort , Tenet had gone to congressional leaders after the 1998 embassy bombings and persuaded them to give the CIA a special supplemental appropriation .
Now , in the aftermath of the millennium alert , Tenet wanted a boost in overall funds for the CIA and another supplemental appropriation specifically for counterterrorism .
To Clarke , this seemed evidence that the CIA 's leadership did not give sufficient priority to the battle against Bin Laden and al Qaeda .
He told us that James Pavitt , the head of the CIA 's Directorate of Operations , " said if there 's going to be money spent on going after Bin Laden , it should be given to him .
My view was that he had had a lot of money to do it and a long time to do it , and I did n't want to put more good money after bad . "
The CIA had a very different attitude : Pavitt told us that while the CIA 's Bin Laden unit did"extraordinary and commendable work , " his chief of station in London " was just as much part of the al Qaeda struggle as an officer sitting in [ the Bin Laden unit]. "
The dispute had large managerial implications , for Clarke had found Ailies in the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB ) .