After the 1998 embassy bombings , the U.S. government tried to develop a clearer picture of Bin Laden 's finances .
A U.S. interagency group traveled to Saudi Arabia twice , in 1999 and 2000 , to get information from the Saudis about their understanding of those finances .
The group eventually concluded that the oft - repeated assertion that Bin Laden was funding al Qaeda from his personal fortune was in fact not true .
The officials developed a new theory : al Qaeda was getting its money elsewhere , and the United States needed to focus on other sources of funding , such as charities , wealthy donors , and financial facilitators .
Ultimately , although the intelligence community devoted more resources to the issue and produced somewhat more intelligence , it remained difficult to distinguish al Qaeda 's financial transactions among the vast sums moving in the international financial system .
The CIA was not able to find or disrupt al Qaeda 's money flows .
The NSC staff thought that one possible solution to these weaknesses in the intelligence community was to create an all - source terrorist - financing intelligence analysis center .
Clarke pushed for the funding of such a center at Treasury , but neither Treasury nor the CIA was willing to commit the resources .
Within the United States , various FBI field offices gathered intelligence on organizations suspected of raising funds for al Qaeda or other terrorist groups .
By 9/11 , FBI agents understood that there were extremist organizations operating within the United States supporting a global jihadist movement and with substantial connections to al Qaeda .
The FBI operated a web of informants , conducted electronic surveillance , and had opened significant investigations in a number of field offices , including New York , Chicago , Detroit , San Diego , and Minneapolis .
On a national level , however , the FBI never used the information to gain a systematic or strategic understanding of the nature and extent of al Qaeda fundraising .
Treasury regulators , as well as U.S. financial institutions , were generally focused on finding and deterring or disrupting the vast flows of U.S. currency generated by drug trafficking and high - level international fraud .
Large - scale scandals , such as the use of the Bank of New York by Russian money launderers to move millions of dollars out of Russia , captured the attention of the Department of the Treasury and of Congress .
Before 9/11 , Treasury did not consider terrorist financing important enough to mention in its national strategy for money laundering .