At the conference room table was White House Deputy Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten .
Bolten watched the exchanges and , after what he called " a quiet moment,"suggested that the Vice President get in touch with the President and confirm the engage order .
Bolten told us he wanted to make sure the President was told that the Vice President had executed the order .
He said he had not heard any prior discussion on the subject with the President .
The Vice President was logged calling the President at 10:18 for a twominute conversation that obtained the confirmation .
On Air Force One , the President 's press secretary was taking notes ; Ari Fleischer recorded that at 10:20 , the President told him that he had authorized a shootdown of aircraft if necessary .
Minutes went by and word arrived of an aircraft down in Pennsylvania .
Those in the shelter wondered if the aircraft had been shot down pursuant to this authorization .
At approximately 10:30 , the shelter started receiving reports of another hijacked plane , this time only 5 to 10 miles out .
Believing they had only a minute or two , the Vice President again communicated the authorization to " engage or " take out " the aircraft .
At 10:33 , Hadley told the air threat conference call : " I need to get word to Dick Myers that our reports are there 's an inbound aircraft flying low 5 miles out .
The Vice President 's guidance was we need to take them out . "
Once again , there was no immediate information about the fate of the inbound aircraft .
In the apt description of one witness , " It drops below the radar screen and it 's just continually hovering in your imagination ; you do n't know where it is or what happens to it . "
Eventually , the shelter received word that the alleged hijacker 5 miles away had been a medevac helicopter .
Transmission of the Authorization from the White House to the Pilots The NMCC learned of United 93 's hijacking at about 10:03 .
At this time the FAA had no contact with the military at the level of national command .
The NMCC learned about United 93 from the White House .