In Hamburg , Jarrah had a succession of living accommodations , but he apparently never resided with his future co - conspirators .
It is not clear how and when he became part of Atta 's circle .
He became particularly friendly with Binalshibh after meeting him at the Quds mosque in Hamburg , which Jarrah began attending regularly in late 1997 .
The worshippers at this mosque featured an outspoken , flamboyant Islamist named Mohammed Haydar Zammar .
A well - known figure in the Muslim community ( and to German and U.S. intelligence agencies by the late 1990s ) , Zammar had fought in Afghanistan and relished any opportunity to extol the virtues of violent jihad .
Indeed , a witness has reported hearing Zammar press Binalshibh to fulfill his duty to wage jihad .
Moreover , after 9/11 , Zammar reportedly took credit for influencing not just Binalshibh but the rest of the Hamburg group .
In 1998 , Zammar encouraged them to participate in jihad and even convinced them to go to Afghanistan .
Owing to Zammar 's persuasion or some other source of inspiration , Atta , Binalshibh , Shehhi , and Jarrah eventually prepared themselves to translate their extremist beliefs into action .
By late 1999 , they were ready to abandon their student lives in Germany in favor of violent jihad .
This final stage in their evolution toward embracing Islamist extremism did not entirely escape the notice of the people around them .
The foursome became core members of a group of radical Muslims , often hosting sessions at their Marienstrasse apartment that involved extremely anti - American discussions .
Meeting three to four times a week , the group became something of a " sect " whose members , according to one participant in the meetings , tended to deal only with each other .
Atta 's rent checks for the apartment provide evidence of the importance that the apartment assumed as a center for the group , as he would write on them the notation " Dar el Ansar , " or " house of the followers . "
In addition to Atta , Binalshibh , Shehhi , and Jarrah , the group included other extremists , some of whom also would attend al Qaeda training camps and , in some instances , would help the 9/11 hijackers as they executed the plot : Said Bahaji , son of a Moroccan immigrant , was the only German citizen in the group .
Educated in Morocco , Bahaji returned to Germany to study electrical engineering at the Technical University of Hamburg - Harburg .
He spent five months in the German army before obtaining a medical discharge , and lived with Atta and Binalshibh at 54 Marienstrasse for eight months between November 1998 and July 1999 .
Described as an insecure follower with no personality and with limited knowledge of Islam , Bahaji nonetheless professed his readiness to engage in violence .