At 9:48 , a representative from the White House shelter asked if there were any indications of another hijacked aircraft .
The deputy director for operations mentioned the Delta flight and concluded that " that would be the fourth possible hijack . "
At 9:49 , the commander of NORAD directed all air sovereignty aircraft to battle stations , fully armed .
At 9:59 , an Air Force lieutenant colonel working in the White House Military Office joined the conference and stated he had just talked to Deputy National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley .
The White House requested ( 1 ) the implementation of continuity of government measures , ( 2 ) fighter escorts for Air Force One , and ( 3 ) a fighter combat air patrol over Washington , D.C.
By 10:03 , when United 93 crashed in Pennsylvania , there had been no mention of its hijacking and the FAA had not yet been added to the teleconference .
The President and the Vice President The President was seated in a classroom when , at 9:05 , Andrew Card whispered to him : " A second plane hit the second tower .
America is under attack . "
The President told us his instinct was to project calm , not to have the country see an excited reaction at a moment of crisis .
The press was standing behind the children ; he saw their phones and pagers start to ring .
The President felt he should project strength and calm until he could better understand what was happening .
The President remained in the classroom for another five to seven minutes , while the children continued reading .
He then returned to a holding room shortly before 9:15 , where he was briefed by staff and saw television coverage .
He next spoke to Vice President Cheney , Dr. Rice , New York Governor George Pataki , and FBI Director Robert Mueller .
He decided to make a brief statement from the school before leaving for the airport .
The Secret Service told us they were anxious to move the President to a safer location , but did not think it imperative for him to run out the door .
Between 9:15 and 9:30 , the staff was busy arranging a return to Washington , while the President consulted his senior advisers about his remarks .
No one in the traveling party had any information during this time that other aircraft were hijacked or missing .
Staff was in contact with the White House Situation Room , but as far as we could determine , no one with the President was in contact with the Pentagon .