On December 4 , as news came in about the discoveries in Jordan , National Security Council ( NSC ) Counterterrorism Coordinator Richard Clarke wrote Berger , " If George 's [ Tenet 's ] story about a planned series of UBL attacks at the Millennium is true , we will need to make some decisions NOW . "
He told us he held several conversations with President Clinton during the crisis .
He suggested threatening reprisals against the Taliban in Afghanistan in the event of any attacks on U.S. interests , anywhere , by Bin Laden .
He further proposed to Berger that a strike be made during the last week of 1999 against al Qaeda camps in Afghanistan - a proposal not adopted .
Warned by the CIA that the disrupted Jordanian plot was probably part of a larger series of attacks intended for the millennium , some possibly involving chemical weapons , the Principals Committee met on the night of December 8 and decided to task Clarke 's Counterterrorism Security Group ( CSG ) to develop plans to deter and disrupt al Qaeda plots .
Michael Sheehan , the State Department member of the CSG , communicated warnings to the Taliban that they would be held responsible for future al Qaeda attacks . "
Mike was not diplomatic , " Clarke reported to Berger .
With virtually no evidence of a Taliban response , a new approach was made to Pakistan .
13 General Anthony Zinni , the commander of Central Command ( CENTCOM ) , was designated as the President 's special envoy and sent to ask General Musharraf to " take whatever action you deem necessary to resolve the Bin Laden problem at the earliest possible time . "
But Zinni came back emptyhanded .
As Ambassador William Milam reported from Islamabad , Musharraf was " unwilling to take the political heat at home . "
The CIA worked hard with foreign security services to detain or at least keep an eye on suspected Bin Laden associates .
Tenet spoke to 20 of his foreign counterparts .
Disruption and arrest operations were mounted against terrorists in eight countries .
In mid - December , President Clinton signed a Memorandum of Notification ( MON ) giving the CIA broader authority to use foreign proxies to detain Bin Laden lieutenants , without having to transfer them to U.S. custody .
The authority was to capture , not kill , though lethal force might be used if necessary.16Tenet would later send a message to all CIA personnel overseas , saying , " The threat could not be more real .