On January 25 , Tenet briefed the President on the Cole investigation .
The written briefing repeated for top officials of the new administration what the CIA had told the Clinton White House in November .
This included the " preliminary judgment " that al Qaeda was responsible , with the caveat that no evidence had yet been found that Bin Laden himself ordered the attack .
Tenet told us he had no recollection of a conversation with the President about this briefing .
In his January 25 memo , Clarke had advised Rice that the government should respond to the Cole attack , but " should take advantage of the policy that ' we will respond at a time , place and manner of our own choosing ' and not be forced into knee - jerk responses . "
Before Vice President Cheney visited the CIA in mid - February , Clarke sent him a memo - outside the usual White House document - management system - suggesting that he ask CIA officials " What additional information is needed before CIA can definitively conclude that al - Qida was responsible " for the Cole .
In March 2001 , the CIA 's briefing slides for Rice were still describing the CIA 's " preliminary judgment " that a " strong circumstantial case " could be made against al Qaeda but noting that the CIA continued to lack " conclusive information on external command and control " of the attack .
Clarke and his aides continued to provide Rice and Hadley with evidence reinforcing the case against al Qaeda and urging action .
The President explained to us that he had been concerned lest an ineffectual air strike just serve to give Bin Laden a propaganda advantage .
He said he had not been told about Clinton administration warnings to the Taliban .
The President told us that he had concluded that the United States must use ground forces for a job like this .
Rice told us that there was never a formal , recorded decision not to retaliate specifically for the Cole attack .
Exchanges with the President , between the President and Tenet , and between herself and Powell and Rumsfeld had produced a consensus that " tit - for - tat " responses were likely to be counterproductive .
This had been the case , she thought , with the cruise missile strikes of August 1998 .
The new team at the Pentagon did not push for action .
On the contrary , Rumsfeld thought that too much time had passed and his deputy , Paul Wolfowitz , thought that the Cole attack was " stale . "
Hadley said that in the end , the administration 's real response to the Cole would be a new , more aggressive strategy against al Qaeda .
The administration decided to propose to Congress a substantial increase in counterterrorism funding for national security agencies , including the CIA and the FBI .