About this time , Card , the lead Secret Service agent , the President 's military aide , and the pilot were conferring on a possible destination for Air Force One .
The Secret Service agent felt strongly that the situation in Washington was too unstable for the President to return there , and Card agreed .
The President strongly wanted to return to Washington and only grudgingly agreed to go elsewhere .
The issue was still undecided when the President conferred with the Vice President at about the time Air Force One was taking off .
The Vice President recalled urging the President not to return to Washington .
Air Force One departed at about 9:54 without any fixed destination .
The objective was to get up in the air - as fast and as high as possible - and then decide where to go .
At 9:33 , the tower supervisor at Reagan National Airport picked up a hotline to the Secret Service and told the Service 's operations center that " an aircraft [ is ] coming at you and not talking with us . "
This was the first specific report to the Secret Service of a direct threat to the White House .
No move was made to evacuate the Vice President at this time .
As the officer who took the call explained , " [ I was ] about to push the alert button when the tower advised that the aircraft was turning south and approaching Reagan National Airport . "
American 77 began turning south , away from the White House , at 9:34 .
It continued heading south for roughly a minute , before turning west and beginning to circle back .
This news prompted the Secret Service to order the immediate evacuation of the Vice President just before 9:36 .
Agents propelled him out of his chair and told him he had to get to the bunker .
The Vice President entered the underground tunnel leading to the shelter at 9:37 .
Once inside , Vice President Cheney and the agents paused in an area of the tunnel that had a secure phone , a bench , and television .
The Vice President asked to speak to the President , but it took time for the call to be connected .