Now effectively merged with Zawahiri 's Egyptian Islamic Jihad , al Qaeda promised to become the general headquarters for international terrorism , without the need for the Islamic Army Shura .
Bin Laden was prepared to pick up where he had left off in Sudan .
He was ready to strike at " The head of the snake . "
Al Qaeda 's role in organizing terrorist operations had also changed .
Before the move to Afghanistan , it had concentrated on providing funds , training , and weapons for actions carried out by members of Ailied groups .
The attacks on the U.S. embassies in East Africa in the summer of 1998 would take a different form - planned , directed , and executed by al Qaeda , under the direct supervision of Bin Laden and his chief aides .
The Embassy Bombings As early as December 1993 , a team of al Qaeda operatives had begun casing targets in Nairobi for future attacks .
It was led by Ali Mohamed , a former Egyptian army officer who had moved to the United States in the mid-1980s , enlisted in the U.S. Army , and became an instructor at Fort Bragg .
He had provided guidance and training to extremists at the Farouq mosque in Brooklyn , including some who were subsequently convicted in the February 1993 attack on the World Trade Center .
The casing team also included a computer expert whose write - ups were reviewed by al Qaeda leaders .
The team set up a makeshift laboratory for developing their surveillance photographs in an apartment in Nairobi where the various al Qaeda operatives and leaders based in or traveling to the Kenya cell sometimes met .
Banshiri , al Qaeda 's military committee chief , continued to be the operational commander of the cell ; but because he was constantly on the move , Bin Laden had dispatched another operative , Khaled al Fawwaz , to serve as the on - site manager .
The technical surveillance and communications equipment employed for these casing missions included state - of - the - art video cameras obtained from China and from dealers in Germany .
The casing team also reconnoitered targets in Djibouti .
As early as January 1994 , Bin Laden received the surveillance reports , complete with diagrams prepared by the team 's computer specialist .
He , his top military committee members - Banshiri and his deputy , Abu Hafs al Masri ( also known as Mohammed Atef)-and a number of other al Qaeda leaders reviewed the reports .
Agreeing that the U.S. embassy in Nairobi was an easy target because a car bomb could be parked close by , they began to form a plan .
Al Qaeda had begun developing the tactical expertise for such attacks months earlier , when some of its operatives - top military committee members and several operatives who were involved with the Kenya cell among them - were sent to Hezbollah training camps in Lebanon .