Although Bin Laden , Atef , and KSM initially contemplated using established al Qaeda members to execute the planes operation , the late 1999 arrival in Kandahar of four aspiring jihadists from Germany suddenly presented a more attractive alternative .
The Hamburg group shared the anti - U.S. fervor of the other candidates for the operation , but added the enormous advantages of fluency in English and familiarity with life in the West , based on years that each member of the group had spent living in Germany .
Not surprisingly , Mohamed Atta , Ramzi Binalshibh , Marwan al Shehhi , and Ziad Jarrah would all become key players in the 9/11 conspiracy .
Mohamed Atta was born on September 1 , 1968 , in Kafr el Sheikh , Egypt , to a middle - class family headed by his father , an attorney .
After graduating from Cairo University with a degree in architectural engineering in 1990 , Atta worked as an urban planner in Cairo for a couple of years .
In the fall of 1991 , he asked a German family he had met in Cairo to help him continue his education in Germany .
They suggested he come to Hamburg and invited him to live with them there , at least initially .
After completing a course in German , Atta traveled to Germany for the first time in July 1992 .
He resided briefly in Stuttgart and then , in the fall of 1992 , moved to Hamburg to live with his host family .
After enrolling at the University of Hamburg , he promptly transferred into the city engineering and planning course at the Technical University of Hamburg - Harburg , where he would remain registered as a student until the fall of 1999 .
He appears to have applied himself fairly seriously to his studies ( at least in comparison to his jihadist friends ) and actually received his degree shortly before traveling to Afghanistan .
In school , Atta came across as very intelligent and reasonably pleasant , with an excellent command of the German language .
When Atta arrived in Germany , he appeared religious , but not fanatically so .
This would change , especially as his tendency to assert leadership became increasingly pronounced .
According to Binalshibh , as early as 1995 Atta sought to organize a Muslim student association in Hamburg .
In the fall of 1997 , he joined a working group at the Quds mosque in Hamburg , a group designed to bridge the gap between Muslims and Christians .
Atta proved a poor bridge , however , because of his abrasive and increasingly dogmatic personality .
But among those who shared his beliefs , Atta stood out as a decisionmaker .