The new administration had already begun exploring possible diplomatic options , retracing many of the paths traveled by its predecessors . U.S.
envoys again pressed the Taliban to turn Bin Laden " over to a country where he could face justice " and repeated , yet again , the warning that the Taliban would be held responsible for any al Qaeda attacks on U.S. interests .
The Taliban 's representatives repeated their old arguments .
Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage told us that while U.S. diplomats were becoming more active on Afghanistan through the spring and summer of 2001 , " it would be wrong for anyone to characterize this as a dramatic shift from the previous administration . "
In deputies meetings at the end of June , Tenet was tasked to assess the prospects forTaliban cooperation with the United States on al Qaeda .
The NSC staff was tasked to flesh out options for dealing with the Taliban .
Revisiting these issues tried the patience of some of the officials who felt they had already been down these roads and who found the NSC 's procedures slow . "
We were n't going fast enough,"Armitage told us .
Clarke kept arguing that moves against the Taliban and al Qaeda should not have to wait months for a larger review of U.S. policy in South Asia . "
For the government , " Hadley said to us,"we moved it along as fast as we could move it along . "
As all hope in moving the Taliban faded , debate revived about giving covert assistance to the regime 's opponents .
Clarke and the CIA 's Cofer Black renewed the push to aid the Northern Alliance .
Clarke suggested starting with modest aid , just enough to keep the Northern Alliance in the fight and tie down al Qaeda terrorists , without aiming to overthrow the Taliban .
Rice , Hadley , and the NSC staff member for Afghanistan , Zalmay Khalilzad , told us they opposed giving aid to the Northern Alliance alone .
They argued that the program needed to have a big part for Pashtun opponents of theTaliban .
They also thought the program should be conducted on a larger scale than had been suggested .
Clarke concurred with the idea of a larger program , but he warned that delay risked the Northern Alliance 's final defeat at the hands of the Taliban .
During the spring , the CIA , at the NSC 's request , had developed draft legal authorities - a presidential finding - to undertake a large - scale program of covert assistance to the Taliban 's foes .