Bin Laden began delivering diatribes against the United States before he left Saudi Arabia .
He continued to do so after he arrived in Sudan .
In early 1992 , the al Qaeda leadership issued a fatwa calling for jihad against the Western " occupation " of Islamic lands .
Specifically singling out U.S. forces for attack , the language resembled that which would appear in Bin Laden 's public fatwa in August 1996 .
In ensuing weeks , Bin Laden delivered an often - repeated lecture on the need to cut off " the head of the snake . "
By this time , Bin Laden was well - known and a senior figure among Islamist extremists , especially those in Egypt , the Arabian Peninsula , and the Afghanistan - Pakistan border region .
Still , he was just one among many diverse terrorist barons .
Some of Bin Laden 's close comrades were more peers than subordinates .
For example , Usama Asmurai , also known as Wali Khan , worked with Bin Laden in the early 1980s and helped him in the Philippines and in Tajikistan .
The Egyptian spiritual guide based in New Jersey , the Blind Sheikh , whom Bin Laden admired , was also in the network .
Among sympathetic peers in Afghanistan were a few of the warlords still fighting for power and Abu Zubaydah , who helped operate a popular terrorist training camp near the border with Pakistan .
There were also rootless but experienced operatives , such as Ramzi Yousef and Khalid Sheikh Mohammed , who - though not necessarily formal members of someone else 's organization - were traveling around the world and joining in projects that were supported by or linked to Bin Laden , the Blind Sheikh , or their associates .
In now analyzing the terrorist programs carried out by members of this network , it would be misleading to apply the label " al Qaeda operations " too often in these early years .
Yet it would also be misleading to ignore the significance of these connections .
And in this network , Bin Laden 's agenda stood out .
While his allied Islamist groups were focused on local battles , such as those in Egypt , Algeria , Bosnia , or Chechnya , Bin Laden concentrated on attacking the " far enemy"-the United States .
After U.S. troops deployed to Somalia in late 1992 , al Qaeda leaders formulated a fatwa demanding their eviction .
In December , bombs exploded at two hotels in Aden where U.S. troops routinely stopped en route to Somalia , killing two , but no Americans .