The Vice President stated that he called the President to discuss the rules of engagement for the CAP .
He recalled feeling that it did no good to establish the CAP unless the pilots had instructions on whether they were authorized to shoot if the plane would not divert .
He said the President signed off on that concept .
The President said he remembered such a conversation , and that it reminded him of when he had been an interceptor pilot .
The President emphasized to us that he had authorized the shootdown of hijacked aircraft .
The Vice President 's military aide told us he believed the Vice President spoke to the President just after entering the conference room , but he did not hear what they said .
Rice , who entered the room shortly after the Vice President and sat next to him , remembered hearing him inform the President , " Sir , the CAPs are up .
Sir , they 're going to want to know what to do . "
Then she recalled hearing him say , " Yes sir . "
She believed this conversation occurred a few minutes , perhaps five , after they entered the conference room .
We believe this call would have taken place sometime before 10:10 to 10:15 .
Among the sources that reflect other important events of that morning , there is no documentary evidence for this call , but the relevant sources are incomplete .
Others nearby who were taking notes , such as the Vice President 's chief of staff , Scooter Libby , who sat next to him , and Mrs. Cheney , did not note a call between the President and Vice President immediately after the Vice President entered the conference room .
At 10:02 , the communicators in the shelter began receiving reports from the Secret Service of an inbound aircraft - presumably hijacked - heading toward Washington .
That aircraft was United 93 .
The Secret Service was getting this information directly from the FAA .
The FAA may have been tracking the progress of United 93 on a display that showed its projected path to Washington , not its actual radar return .
Thus , the Secret Service was relying on projections and was not aware the plane was already down in Pennsylvania .