The hijackers attacked at 9:28 .
While traveling 35,000 feet above eastern Ohio , United 93 suddenly dropped 700 feet .
Eleven seconds into the descent , the FAA 's air traffic control center in Cleveland received the first of two radio transmissions from the aircraft .
During the first broadcast , the captain or first officer could be heard declaring " Mayday " amid the sounds of a physical struggle in the cockpit .
The second radio transmission , 35 seconds later , indicated that the fight was continuing .
The captain or first officer could be heard shouting : " Hey get out of here - get out of here - get out of here . "
On the morning of 9/11 , there were only 37 passengers on United 93 - 33 in addition to the 4 hijackers .
This was below the norm for Tuesday mornings during the summer of 2001 .
But there is no evidence that the hijackers manipulated passenger levels or purchased additional seats to facilitate their operation .
The terrorists who hijacked three other commercial flights on 9/11 operated in five - man teams .
They initiated their cockpit takeover within 30 minutes of takeoff .
On Flight 93 , however , the takeover took place 46 minutes after takeoff and there were only four hijackers .
The operative likely intended to round out the team for this flight , Mohamed al Kahtani , had been refused entry by a suspicious immigration inspector at Florida 's Orlando International Airport in August .
Because several passengers on United 93 described three hijackers on the plane , not four , some have wondered whether one of the hijackers had been able to use the cockpit jump seat from the outset of the flight .
FAA rules allow use of this seat by documented and approved individuals , usually air carrier or FAA personnel .
We have found no evidence indicating that one of the hijackers , or anyone else , sat there on this flight .
All the hijackers had assigned seats in first class , and they seem to have used them .
We believe it is more likely that Jarrah , the crucial pilot - trained member of their team , remained seated and inconspicuous until after the cockpit was seized ; and once inside , he would not have been visible to the passengers .