In passing through these checkpoints , each of the hijackers would have been screened by a walk - through metal detector calibrated to detect items with at least the metal content of a .22-caliber handgun .
Anyone who might have set off that detector would have been screened with a hand wand - a procedure requiring the screener to identify the metal item or items that caused the alarm .
In addition , an X - ray machine would have screened the hijackers ' carry - on belongings .
The screening was in place to identify and confiscate weapons and other items prohibited from being carried onto a commercial flight .
None of the checkpoint supervisors recalled the hijackers or reported anything suspicious regarding their screening .
While Atta had been selected by CAPPS in Portland , three members of his hijacking team - Suqami , Wail al Shehri , and Waleed al Shehri - were selected in Boston .
Their selection affected only the handling of their checked bags , not their screening at the checkpoint .
All five men cleared the checkpoint and made their way to the gate for American 11 .
Atta , Omari , and Suqami took their seats in business class ( seats 8D , 8 G , and 10B , respectively ) .
The Shehri brothers had adjacent seats in row 2 ( Wail in 2A , Waleed in 2B ) , in the firstclass cabin .
They boarded American 11 between 7:31 and 7:40 .
The aircraft pushed back from the gate at 7:40 .
Shehhi and his team , none of whom had been selected by CAPPS , boarded United 175 between 7:23 and 7:28 ( Banihammad in 2A , Shehri in 2B , Shehhi in 6C , Hamza al Ghamdi in 9C , and Ahmed al Ghamdi in 9D ) .
Their aircraft pushed back from the gate just before 8:00 .
Washington Dulles : American 77 .
Hundreds of miles southwest of Boston , at Dulles International Airport in the Virginia suburbs of Washington , D.C. , five more men were preparing to take their early morning flight .
At 7:15 , a pair of them , Khalid al Mihdhar and Majed Moqed , checked in at the American Airlines ticket counter for Flight 77 , bound for Los Angeles .
Within the next 20 minutes , they would be followed by Hani Hanjour and two brothers , Nawaf al Hazmi and Salem al Hazmi .