These experiments in political Islam faltered during the 1990s : the Iranian revolution lost momentum , prestige , and public support , and Pakistan 's rulers found that most of its population had little enthusiasm for fundamentalist Islam .
Islamist revival movements gained followers across the Muslim world , but failed to secure political power except in Iran and Sudan .
In Algeria , where in 1991 Islamists seemed almost certain to win power through the ballot box , the military preempted their victory , triggering a brutal civil war that continues today .
Opponents of today 's rulers have few , if any , ways to participate in the existing political system .
They are thus a ready audience for calls to Muslims to purify their society , reject unwelcome modernization , and adhere strictly to the Sharia .
Social and Economic Malaise In the 1970s and early 1980s , an unprecedented flood of wealth led the then largely unmodernized oil states to attempt to shortcut decades of development .
They funded huge infrastructure projects , vastly expanded education , and created subsidized social welfare programs .
These programs established a widespread feeling of entitlement without a corresponding sense of social obligations .
By the late 1980s , diminishing oil revenues , the economic drain from many unprofitable development projects , and population growth made these entitlement programs unsustainable .
The resulting cutbacks created enormous resentment among recipients who had come to see government largesse as their right .
This resentment was further stoked by public understanding of how much oil income had gone straight into the pockets of the rulers , their friends , and their helpers .
Unlike the oil states ( or Afghanistan , where real economic development has barely begun ) , the other Arab nations and Pakistan once had seemed headed toward balanced modernization .
The established commercial , financial , and industrial sectors in these states , supported by an entrepreneurial spirit and widespread understanding of free enterprise , augured well .
But unprofitable heavy industry , state monopolies , and opaque bureaucracies slowly stifled growth .
More importantly , these state - centered regimes placed their highest priority on preserving the elite 's grip on national wealth .
Unwilling to foster dynamic economies that could create jobs attractive to educated young men , the countries became economically stagnant and reliant on the safety valve of worker emigration either to the Arab oil states or to the West .
Furthermore , the repression and isolation of women in many Muslim countries have not only seriously limited individual opportunity but also crippled overall economic productivity .
By the 1990s , high birthrates and declining rates of infant mortality had produced a common problem throughout the Muslim world : a large , steadily increasing population of young men without any reasonable expectation of suitable or steady employment - a sure prescription for social turbulence .