Teams from the FBI , the Naval Criminal Investigative Service , and the CIA were immediately sent to Yemen to investigate the attack .
With difficulty , Barbara Bodine , the U.S. ambassador to Yemen , tried to persuade the Yemeni government to accept these visitors and allow them to carry arms , though the Yemenis balked at letting Americans openly carry long guns ( rifles , shotguns , automatic weapons ) .
Meanwhile , Bodine and the leader of the FBI team , John O'Neill , clashed repeatedly - to the point that after O'Neill had been rotated out of Yemen but wanted to return , Bodine refused the request .
Despite the initial tension , the Yemeni and American investigations proceeded .
Within a few weeks , the outline of the story began to emerge .
On the day of the Cole attack , a list of suspects was assembled that included al Qaeda 's affiliate Egyptian Islamic Jihad .
U.S. counterterrorism officials told us they immediately assumed that al Qaeda was responsible .
But as Deputy DCI John McLaughlin explained to us , it was not enough for the attack to smell , look , and taste like an al Qaeda operation .
To make a case , the CIA needed not just a guess but a link to someone known to be an al Qaeda operative .
Within the first weeks after the attack , the Yemenis found and arrested both Badawi and Quso , but did not let the FBI team participate in the interrogations .
The CIA described initial Yemeni support after the Cole as " slow and inadequate . "
President Clinton , Secretary Albright , and DCI Tenet all intervened to help .
Because the information was secondhand , the U.S. team could not make its own assessment of its reliability .
On November 11 , the Yemenis provided the FBI with new information from the interrogations of Badawi and Quso , including descriptions of individuals from whom the detainees had received operational direction .
One of them was Khallad , who was described as having lost his leg .
The detainees said that Khallad helped direct the Cole operation from Afghanistan or Pakistan .
The Yemenis ( correctly ) judged that the man described as Khallad was Tawfiq bin Attash .
An FBI special agent recognized the name Khallad and connected this news with information from an important al Qaeda source who had been meeting regularly with CIA and FBI officers .