The Agencies Confer When they learned a second plane had struck the World Trade Center , nearly everyone in the White House told us , they immediately knew it was not an accident .
The Secret Service initiated a number of security enhancements around the White House complex .
The officials who issued these orders did not know that there were additional hijacked aircraft , or that one such aircraft was en route to Washington .
These measures were precautionary steps taken because of the strikes in New York .
The FAA and White House Teleconferences .
The FAA , the White House , and the Defense Department each initiated a multiagency teleconference before 9:30 .
Because none of these teleconferences - at least before 10:00- included the right officials from both the FAA and Defense Department , none succeeded in meaningfully coordinating the military and FAA response to the hijackings .
At about 9:20 , security personnel at FAA headquarters set up a hijacking teleconference with several agencies , including the Defense Department .
The NMCC officer who participated told us that the call was monitored only periodically because the information was sporadic , it was of little value , and there were other important tasks .
The FAA manager of the teleconference also remembered that the military participated only briefly before the Pentagon was hit .
Both individuals agreed that the teleconference played no role in coordinating a response to the attacks of 9/11 .
Acting Deputy Administrator Belger was frustrated to learn later in the morning that the military had not been on the call .
At the White House , the video teleconference was conducted from the Situation Room by Richard Clarke , a special assistant to the president long involved in counterterrorism .
Logs indicate that it began at 9:25 and included the CIA ; the FBI ; the departments of State , Justice , and Defense ; the FAA ; and the White House shelter .
The FAA and CIA joined at 9:40 .
The first topic addressed in the White House video teleconference - at about 9:40-was the physical security of the President , the White House , and federal agencies .
Immediately thereafter it was reported that a plane had hit the Pentagon .
We found no evidence that video teleconference participants had any prior information that American 77 had been hijacked and was heading directly toward Washington .