While Nashiri was in Afghanistan , Nibras and Khamri saw their chance .
They piloted the explosives - laden boat alongside the USS Cole , made friendly gestures to crew members , and detonated the bomb .
Quso did not arrive at the apartment in time to film the attack .
Back in Afghanistan , Bin Laden anticipated U.S. military retaliation .
He ordered the evacuation of al Qaeda 's Kandahar airport compound and fled- first to the desert area near Kabul , then to Khowst and Jalalabad , and eventually back to Kandahar .
In Kandahar , he rotated between five to six residences , spending one night at each residence .
In addition , he sent his senior advisor , Mohammed Atef , to a different part of Kandahar and his deputy , Ayman al Zawahiri , to Kabul so that all three could not be killed in one attack .
There was no American strike .
In February 2001 , a source reported that an individual whom he identified as the big instructor ( probably a reference to Bin Laden ) complained frequently that the United States had not yet attacked .
According to the source , Bin Laden wanted the United States to attack , and if it did not he would launch something bigger .
The attack on the USS Cole galvanized al Qaeda 's recruitment efforts .
Following the attack , Bin Laden instructed the media committee , then headed by Khalid Sheikh Mohammed , to produce a propaganda video that included a reenactment of the attack along with images of the al Qaeda training camps and training methods ; it also highlighted Muslim suffering in Palestine , Kashmir , Indonesia , and Chechnya .
Al Qaeda 's image was very important to Bin Laden , and the video was widely disseminated .
Portions were aired on Al Jazeera , CNN , and other television outlets .
It was also disseminated among many young men in Saudi Arabia and Yemen , and caused many extremists to travel to Afghanistan for training and jihad .
Al Qaeda members considered the video an effective tool in their struggle for preeminence among other Islamist and jihadist movements .