Clarifying the Record The defense of U.S. airspace on 9/11 was not conducted in accord with preexisting training and protocols .
It was improvised by civilians who had never handled a hijacked aircraft that attempted to disappear , and by a military unprepared for the transformation of commercial aircraft into weapons of mass destruction .
As it turned out , the NEADS air defenders had nine minutes ' notice on the first hijacked plane , no advance notice on the second , no advance notice on the third , and no advance notice on the fourth .
We do not believe that the true picture of that morning reflects discredit on the operational personnel at NEADS or FAA facilities .
NEADS commanders and officers actively sought out information , and made the best judgments they could on the basis of what they knew .
Individual FAA controllers , facility managers , and Command Center managers thought outside the box in recommending a nationwide alert , in ground - stopping local traffic , and , ultimately , in deciding to land all aircraft and executing that unprecedented order flawlessly .
More than the actual events , inaccurate government accounts of those events made it appear that the military was notified in time to respond to two of the hijackings , raising questions about the adequacy of the response .
Those accounts had the effect of deflecting questions about the military 's capacity to obtain timely and accurate information from its own sources .
In addition , they overstated the FAA 's ability to provide the military with timely and useful information that morning .
In public testimony before this Commission in May 2003 , NORAD officials stated that at 9:16 , NEADS received hijack notification of United 93 from the FAA .
This statement was incorrect .
There was no hijack to report at 9:16 .
United 93 was proceeding normally at that time .
In this same public testimony , NORAD officials stated that at 9:24 , NEADS received notification of the hijacking of American 77 .
This statement was also incorrect .
The notice NEADS received at 9:24 was that American 11 had not hit the World Trade Center and was heading for Washington , D.C. In their testimony and in other public accounts , NORAD officials also stated that the Langley fighters were scrambled to respond to the notifications about American 77,178 United 93 , or both .
These statements were incorrect as well .
The fighters were scrambled because of the report that American 11 was heading south , as is clear not just from taped conversations at NEADS but also from taped conversations at FAA centers ; contemporaneous logs compiled at NEADS , Continental Region headquarters , and NORAD ; and other records .