During the short transition , Rice and Hadley concentrated on staffing and organizing the NSC .
Their policy priorities differed from those of the Clinton administration .
Those priorities included China , missile defense , the collapse of the Middle East peace process , and the Persian Gulf .
Generally aware that terrorism had changed since the first Bush administration , they paid particular attention to the question of how counterterrorism policy should be coordinated .
Rice had asked University of Virginia history professor Philip Zelikow to advise her on the transition .
Hadley and Zelikow asked Clarke and his deputy , Roger Cressey , for a special briefing on the terrorist threat and how Clarke'sTransnationalThreats Directorate and Counterterrorism Security Group functioned .
In the NSC during the first Bush administration , many tough issues were addressed at the level of the Deputies Committee .
Issues did not go to the principals unless the deputies had been unable to resolve them .
Presidential Decision Directive 62 of the Clinton administration had said specifically that Clarke 's Counterterrorism Security Group should report through the Deputies Committee or , at Berger 's discretion , directly to the principals .
Berger had in practice allowed Clarke 's group to function as a parallel deputies committee , reporting directly to those members of the Principals Committee who sat on the special Small Group .
There , Clarke himself sat as a de facto principal .
Rice decided to change the special structure that had been built to coordinate counterterrorism policy .
It was important to sound policymaking , she felt , that Clarke 's interagency committee - like all others - report to the principals through the deputies .
Rice made an initial decision to hold over both Clarke and his entire counterterrorism staff , a decision that she called rare for a new administration .
She decided also that Clarke should retain the title of national counterterrorism coordinator , although he would no longer be a de facto member of the Principals Committee on his issues .
The decision to keep Clarke , Rice said , was " not uncontroversial , " since he was known as someone who " broke China , " but she and Hadley wanted an experienced crisis manager .
No one else from Berger 's staff had Clarke 's detailed knowledge of the levers of government .
168 Clarke was disappointed at what he perceived as a demotion .