Bin Laden and his aides did not need a very large sum to finance their planned attack on America .
The 9/11 plotters eventually spent somewhere between $ 400,000 and $ 500,000 to plan and conduct their attack .
Consistent with the importance of the project , al Qaeda funded the plotters .
KSM provided his operatives with nearly all the money they needed to travel to the United States , train , and live .
The plotters ' tradecraft was not especially sophisticated , but it was good enough .
They moved , stored , and spent their money in ordinary ways , easily defeating the detection mechanisms in place at the time .
The origin of the funds remains unknown , although we have a general idea of how al Qaeda financed itself during the period leading up to 9/11 .
General Financing As we explained in chapter 2 , Bin Laden did not fund al Qaeda through a personal fortune and a network of businesses in Sudan .
Instead , al Qaeda relied primarily on a fund - raising network developed over time .
The CIA now estimates that it cost al Qaeda about $ 30 million per year to sustain its activities before 9/11 and that this money was raised almost entirely through donations .
For many years , the United States thought Bin Laden financed al Qaeda 's expenses through a vast personal inheritance .
Bin Laden purportedly inherited approximately $ 300 million when his father died , and was rumored to have had access to these funds to wage jihad while in Sudan and Afghanistan and to secure his leadership position in al Qaeda .
In early 2000 , the U.S. government discovered a different reality : roughly from 1970 through 1994 , Bin Laden received about $ 1 million per year - a significant sum , to be sure , but not a $ 300 million fortune that could be used to fund jihad .
Then , as part of a Saudi government crackdown early in the 1990s , the Bin Laden family was forced to find a buyer for Usama 's share of the family company in 1994 .
The Saudi government subsequently froze the proceeds of the sale .
This action had the effect of divesting Bin Laden of what otherwise might indeed have been a large fortune .
Nor were Bin Laden 's assets in Sudan a source of money for al Qaeda .
When Bin Laden lived in Sudan from 1991 to 1996 , he owned a number of businesses and other assets .