Zakariya Essabar , a Moroccan citizen , moved to Germany in February 1997 and to Hamburg in 1998 , where he studied medical technology .
Soon after moving to Hamburg , Essabar met Binalshibh and the others through a Turkish mosque .
Essabar turned extremist fairly suddenly , probably in 1999 , and reportedly pressured one acquaintance with physical force to become more religious , grow a beard , and compel his wife to convert to Islam .
Essabar 's parents were said to have made repeated but unsuccessful efforts to sway him from this lifestyle .
Shortly before the 9/11 attacks , he would travel to Afghanistan to communicate the date for the attacks to the al Qaeda leadership .
Mounir el Motassadeq , another Moroccan , came to Germany in 1993 , moving to Hamburg two years later to study electrical engineering at theTechnical University .
A witness has recalled Motassadeq saying that he would kill his entire family if his religious beliefs demanded it .
One of Motassadeq 's roommates recalls him referring to Hitler as a " good man " and organizing film sessions that included speeches by Bin Laden .
Motassadeq would help conceal the Hamburg group 's trip to Afghanistan in late 1999 .
Abdelghani Mzoudi , also a Moroccan , arrived in Germany in the summer of 1993 , after completing university courses in physics and chemistry .
Mzoudi studied in Dortmund , Bochum , and Muenster before moving to Hamburg in 1995 .
Mzoudi described himself as a weak Muslim when he was home in Morocco , but much more devout when he was back in Hamburg .
In April 1996 , Mzoudi and Motassadeq witnessed the execution of Atta 's will .
During the course of 1999 , Atta and his group became ever more extreme and secretive , speaking only in Arabic to conceal the content of their conversations .
87 When the four core members of the Hamburg cell left Germany to journey to Afghanistan late that year , it seems unlikely that they already knew about the planes operation ; no evidence connects them to al Qaeda before that time .
Witnesses have attested , however , that their pronouncements reflected ample predisposition toward taking some action against the United States .
In short , they fit the bill for Bin Laden , Atef , and KSM .
Going to Afghanistan The available evidence indicates that in 1999 , Atta , Binalshibh , Shehhi , and Jarrah decided to fight in Chechnya against the Russians .