About 20 minutes later , at 7:35 , another passenger for Flight 77 , Hani Hanjour , placed two carry - on bags on the X - ray belt in the Main Terminal 's west checkpoint , and proceeded , without alarm , through the metal detector .
A short time later , Nawaf and Salem al Hazmi entered the same checkpoint .
Salem al Hazmi cleared the metal detector and was permitted through ; Nawaf al Hazmi set off the alarms for both the first and second metal detectors and was then hand - wanded before being passed .
In addition , his over - the - shoulder carry - on bag was swiped by an explosive trace detector and then passed .
The video footage indicates that he was carrying an unidentified item in his back pocket , clipped to its rim .
When the local civil aviation security office of the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) later investigated these security screening operations , the screeners recalled nothing out of the ordinary .
They could not recall that any of the passengers they screened were CAPPS selectees .
We asked a screening expert to review the videotape of the hand - wanding , and he found the quality of the screener 's work to have been " marginal at best . "
The screener should have " resolved " what set off the alarm ; and in the case of both Moqed and Hazmi , it was clear that he did not .
At 7:50 , Majed Moqed and Khalid al Mihdhar boarded the flight and were seated in 12A and 12B in coach .
Hani Hanjour , assigned to seat 1B ( first class ) , soon followed .
The Hazmi brothers , sitting in 5E and 5F , joined Hanjour in the first - class cabin .
Newark : United 93 .
Between 7:03 and 7:39 , Saeed al Ghamdi , Ahmed al Nami , Ahmad al Haznawi , and Ziad Jarrah checked in at the United Airlines ticket counter for Flight 93 , going to Los Angeles .
Two checked bags ; two did not .
Haznawi was selected by CAPPS .
His checked bag was screened for explosives and then loaded on the plane .
The four men passed through the security checkpoint , owned by United Airlines and operated under contract by Argenbright Security .