In March 2001 , Rice asked the CIA to prepare a new series of authorities for covert action in Afghanistan .
Rice 's recollection was that the idea had come from Clarke and the NSC senior director for intelligence , Mary McCarthy , and had been linked to the proposal for aid to the Northern Alliance and the Uzbeks .
Rice described the draft document as providing for " consolidation plus , " superseding the various Clinton administration documents .
In fact , the CIA drafted two documents .
One was a finding that did concern aid to opponents of the Taliban regime ; the other was a draft Memorandum of Notification , which included more open - ended language authorizing possible lethal action in a variety of situations .
Tenet delivered both to Hadley on March 28 .
The CIA 's notes for Tenet advised him that " in response to the NSC request for drafts that will help the policymakers review their options , each of the documents has been crafted to provide the Agency with the broadest possible discretion permissible under the law . "
At the meeting , Tenet argued for deciding on a policy before deciding on the legal authorities to implement it .
Hadley accepted this argument , and the draft MON was put on hold .
As the policy review moved forward , the planned covert action program for Afghanistan was included in the draft presidential directive , as part of an " Annex A " on intelligence activities to " eliminate the al Qaeda threat . "
The main debate during the summer of 2001 concentrated on the one new mechanism for a lethal attack on Bin Laden - an armed version of the Predator drone .
In the first months of the new administration , questions concerning the Predator became more and more a central focus of dispute .
Clarke favored resuming Predator flights over Afghanistan as soon as weather permitted , hoping that they still might provide the elusive " actionable intelligence " to target Bin Laden with cruise missiles .
Learning that the Air Force was thinking of equipping Predators with warheads , Clarke became even more enthusiastic about redeployment .
The CTC chief , Cofer Black , argued against deploying the Predator for reconnaissance purposes .
He recalled that theTaliban had spotted a Predator in the fall of 2000 and scrambled their MiG fighters .
Black wanted to wait until the armed version was ready .
" I do not believe the possible recon value outweighs the risk of possible program termination when the stakes are raised by the Taliban parading a charred Predator in front of CNN , " he wrote .