When American 11 struck the World Trade Center at 8:46 , no one in the White House or traveling with the President knew that it had been hijacked .
While that information circulated within the FAA , we found no evidence that the hijacking was reported to any other agency in Washington before 8:46 .
Most federal agencies learned about the crash in New York from CNN .
Within the FAA , the administrator , Jane Garvey , and her acting deputy , Monte Belger , had not been told of a confirmed hijacking before they learned from television that a plane had crashed .
Others in the agency were aware of it , as we explained earlier in this chapter .
Inside the National Military Command Center , the deputy director of operations and his assistant began notifying senior Pentagon officials of the incident .
At about 9:00 , the senior NMCC operations officer reached out to the FAA operations center for information .
Although the NMCC was advised of the hijacking of American 11 , the scrambling of jets was not discussed .
In Sarasota , Florida , the presidential motorcade was arriving at the Emma E. Booker Elementary School , where President Bush was to read to a class and talk about education .
White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card told us he was standing with the President outside the classroom when Senior Advisor to the President Karl Rove first informed them that a small , twin - engine plane had crashed into the World Trade Center .
The President 's reaction was that the incident must have been caused by pilot error .
At 8:55 , before entering the classroom , the President spoke to National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice , who was at the White House .
She recalled first telling the President it was a twin - engine aircraft - and then a commercial aircraft - that had struck the World Trade Center , adding " that 's all we know right now , Mr. President . "
At the White House , Vice President Dick Cheney had just sat down for a meeting when his assistant told him to turn on his television because a plane had struck the NorthTower of the World Trade Center .
The Vice President was wondering " How the hell could a plane hit the World Trade Center " when he saw the second aircraft strike the South Tower .
Elsewhere in the White House , a series of 9:00 meetings was about to begin .
In the absence of information that the crash was anything other than an accident , the White House staff monitored the news as they went ahead with their regular schedules .