Growing up on a farm near St. Paul , L. Mark Bailey did n't dream of becoming a judge .
Even when he graduated from North Decatur High School in 1975 , sitting on the bench someday seemed more like a leisurely activity than a career .
Somewhere along the line , all of that changed .
Bailey received his bachelor 's degree from the University of Indianapolis in 1978 and a jurisprudence doctorate from Indiana University - Indianapolis in 1982 .
After several years of private practice from 1982 - 90 , he became the judge of Decatur County Court for a year .
The Indiana legislature renamed that judgeship and Bailey was tabbed Decatur Superior Court judge from 1992 - 98 , winning reelection twice .
From there , his career continued on the fast track and Bailey was appointed by Gov. Frank O'Bannon to sit on the Indiana Court of Appeals First District , where he works today .
Despite his quick climb up the legal ladder , Bailey has always found time to help out in causes he feels strongly about .
It was for his dedication to the law and the people that are affected by it that he was recently recognized .
The Indiana Pro Bono Commission hosted its annual celebration event , the Randall T. Shepard Dinner , at French Lick Springs Spa in October .
More than 100 judges , lawyers and dignitaries were present for the gathering .
One of the highlights of the event was the presentation of the first - ever Randall T. Shepard award for excellence in pro bono work .
Bailey received the award for his three years of volunteer work at Indiana Pro Bono Commission .
The award was named after the chief justice of the Indiana Supreme Court to honor his statewide vision on justice .
The qualifications for the award were based upon demonstrated dedication to the innovative development and delivery of legal services to the poor in one of the 14 pro bono districts of Indiana .
" This award came as a real surprise to me .
It is truly an honor .
Just being the first chair of the commission which began the implementation of the pro bono process was somewhat humbling .