If you beat a dog in Schuylkill County , you 'll probably get a $ 100 fine .
If you repeatedly beat a woman , you 'll probably get the same fine .
In 2001 , county judges heard 98 Protection From Abuse cases , finding the defendant guilty in 48 percent of those cases , either after a hearing or through a technical violation or plea .
Of those found guilty , the majority were ordered to pay court costs , plus a $ 100 fine .
No defendants were ordered to pay more than a $ 250 fine for violating the court order .
In 27 percent of the cases , the charges were dismissed or the defendant was found not guilty .
In the rest of the cases , charges were withdrawn or the matter is not yet resolved .
Sarah T. Casey , executive director of Schuylkill Women in Crisis , finds it disturbing that in most cases , the fine for violating a PFA is little more than the fine someone would get for cruelty and abuse toward an animal .
" In most of the counties surrounding Schuylkill County , the penalties given for indirect criminal contempt are much stiffer than those in Schuylkill County , " Casey said .
" What kind of message are we sending those who repeatedly violate Protection From Abuse orders ?
That it 's OK to abuse women in Schuylkill County , because you 'll only get a slap on the wrist ? "
Under state law , the minimum fine for contempt of a PFA is $ 100 ; the maximum fine is $ 1,000 and up to six months in jail .
Like others who are familiar with how the county 's legal system does and does n't work for victims of domestic violence , Casey believes some changes are in order .
Valerie West , a manager / attorney with Mid - Penn Legal Services , with offices in Pottsville and Reading , regularly handles domestic violence cases .
She finds fault with the local requirement that a custody order must be established within 30 days after a PFA is filed .
West said she feels a custody order should be allowed to stand for the full term of the PFA - up to 18 months - as it does in many other counties in the state .
" It places an undue burden on the plaintiff , in terms of cost , finding legal representation and facing their abuser - not to mention a further burden on the system to provide those services , " West said .
" It may be difficult for the parties to reach an agreement so soon after violence has occurred .