Catherine V. " Ginny " Kilgore of Oxford , an attorney with North Mississippi Rural Legal Services , has been recognized for her dedication to serving the indigent .
Kilgore - who oversees delivering legal services to the disabled and elderly in 39 north Mississippi counties - is recipient of the University of Mississippi School of Law 's 2002 Public Service Award .
The award was announced recently at a dinne r , held in Kilgore 's honor and hosted by law school Dean Samuel M. Davis , who presented her with an engraved plaque .
" Ginny Kilgore is a public servant in the truest sense , " said Davis .
" Her selection continues the tradition of this award in recognizing those who have labored in the trenches , with little or no compensation but with great professional and personal satisfaction in helping to bring justice and equality to those who need it most . "
" This award means a great deal to me , " Kilgore said , pointing to others so honored .
" The work of those who received the award before me has been so important ; I feel very honored . "
After earning bachelor 's and master 's degrees in education and a few years teaching , Kilgore enrolled at the UM law school .
Upon graduation in 1975 , she entered private law practice in Oxford , joining NMRLS in 1978 .
Since then , she has earned promotions from managing attorney , senior attorney , then director of the Council on Aging project .
Since 1990 , she has worked in the Administrative Law Unit and Resource Development , and directed the Elder Law Project , serving the northern half of the state .
She also is an adjunct professor in the UM law school 's Civil Law Clinic .
She held a similar post a few years ago in the school 's Elder Law Clinic .
Kilgore says she 's found her niche .
" I 've always thought it was important to do work to help people .
I really enjoy it .
The issues I 've dealt with through the years have been on the side of helping people maintain the basics of life - home , healt h care , jobs and family . "
She says her desire to serve others was sparked early , growing up in a single - parent home , aware that her widowed mother faced certain challenges as she supported her four children through public school and college .