Lash is associate dean at the University of Southern California Law School .
Johnson is a justice on California 's Second District Court of Appeal .
Lash and Johnson are co - chairs of the California Commission on Access to Justice .
The full report can be viewed at ( www.calbar.org ) .
In her year - long odyssey through the California justice system , Katherine , a 35-year - old single mother with three children , experienced failure at every turn .
Leaving her abusive husband , she moved into the only apartment she could afford , and soon discovered a broken toilet and non- working oven , rats and roaches , and a fourthfloor landing with no railing .
She began withholding rent pending repairs her landlord refused to make , but then her Medi - Cal benefits were cut off when she could not provide rent receipts .
She lost health care for her children and herself , although she is a borderline diabetic in need of medication and her children were suffering from rat bites .
Katherine tried to seek help through the courts .
Representing herself at an administrative hearing , she lost her appeal to restore Medi - Cal benefits because she did not have proper documentation of the rent account .
When she went to a courthouse to file a complaint against her landlord , she found the process so confusing that she gave up and went home .
According to " The Path to Justice : A Five - Year Status Report on Access to Justice in California , " prepared by the California Commission on Access to Justice , Katherine is just one of 4.6 million poor Californians whose basic civil legal needs -- often involving such critical needs as housing , health care , education , employment , safety and transportation -- are not being addressed .
California has a critical dearth of legal services for the poor , and , as this report makes clear , it is imperative that the state join with the federal government and private funders to increase resources so that all Californians , regardless of income , have equal access to our justice system .
Our justice system is predicated on the assumption that both parties will be represented by lawyers who act as gatekeepers and guides through a complex legal system that would otherwise be inaccessible to many of us .
Unfortunately , the most vulnerable members of our society are the least able to afford legal services .
California does have a strong network of legal aid organizations that try to help meet the needs of the poor , but there 's just one legal aid lawyer available per 10,000 poor people .
We may promise " justice for all , " but for those who ca n't afford a lawyer , that promise is often a lie .
In its new report , the Commission on Access to Justice notes some significant steps toward providing equal access to justice for all Californians .