One look at Fred Rooney , and you just know he 's the good guy .
A trace of childish innocence in his face gives the lanky Bethlehem lawyer a Jimmy Stewart - like quality of quiet trust .
In black jeans and button - down shirt , he 's a kind of folk hero in the south Bethlehem melting pot where he 's crafted a law practice catering to working - class families - mostly Latino - in the shadow of the hulkish remnants of Bethlehem Steel .
A two - hour drive away , at City University of New York Law School in Queens , Rooney spends several days a week helping upstart lawyers develop storefront practices that , like his , provide legal representation to folks who ca n't afford a $ 250-an - hour legal counselor .
Kristin Booth Glen , the law school 's dean , took one look at Rooney and knew he was the right person to head the innovative Community Legal Resources Network .
' ' Fred 's so low - key , he 's Midwestern in effect , ' ' says Glen , a former New York Supreme Court judge .
' ' He captivates people , he inspires loyalty . ' '
For bringing legal representation to the poor and a host of other social causes , including finding medical care for seriously ill children in Latin America , the Moravian College Alumni Association has chosen Rooney for its prestigious Haupert Humanitarian Award .
The award , given to only a select few alumni , will be presented at 7:30 tonight at a reception on Moravian 's Priscilla Payne Hurd campus .
Moravian , where he was an undergraduate in the early 1970s , inspired Rooney 's deep sense of social justice .
The son of a Bethlehem Steel executive in New York , he came to the Bethlehem campus from an affluent upbringing on Long Island .
The young Rooney might have set his sights on Washington , D.C. , like his uncle , former U.S. Rep. Fred Rooney of Bethlehem .
After all , politics run in the Rooney family .
His brother , state Rep. T.J. Rooney of Bethlehem , is a power in the state Legislature and the Democratic Party .
But on a trip to Colombia when he was a junior at Moravian , the child of privilege saw human suffering , malnutrition and poverty the likes of which he had never imagined .
' ' I could n't understand why we live this way and they live that way , ' ' Rooney recalled .
' ' It 's been the guiding light of my life ever since . ' '
After graduating in CUNY Law School 's first class in 1986 , he took a job with Lehigh Valley Legal Services .