For more than half a century , the Passaic County Legal Aid Society has fought on behalf of the county 's poor , in disputes ranging from housing to child custody to public assistance .
But for the last several years it has often done that job poorly , according to state and federal officials .
And barring a long - shot legal victory , as of Jan. 1 the autonomous county office will be replaced by a new agency whose administrators will report to a director based in Jersey City .
Federal legal aid officials drew up the new service area uniting Bergen , Hudson , and Passaic counties in June , insisting the change will trim administrative costs without compromising services .
The Passaic County office and its supporters see it differently .
They say top decision - makers will be too far from the individuals and non - profit agencies that rely on the office for help .
And in a federal lawsuit , the agency 's leadership argues that a merger would jeopardize its educational programs and minority hiring efforts , and that its imposition amounts to bureaucratic bullying by state and federal officials .
Those same officials have repeatedly accused the Passaic County office of mismanagement .
Reviews since 1995 have found evidence of shoddy accounting , poor morale , excessive staff turnover , and double counting of cases - and alleged that the office made limited efforts to rectify the problems .
At times in recent years , the office has received its state and federal funding on a month - to - month basis , which one federal official called " one step short of defunding . "
Leaders of the county agency , which employs 14 attorneys , five paralegals , and nine support staff at offices in Paterson and Wanaque , say officials have " greatly exaggerated " the office 's problems , which they call mostly bureaucratic .
" Just let them argue that their [ merger ] plan makes sense , " Maxim Thorne , the office 's deputy director , said of the higher - level legal aid officials .
" They could never replicate our services or equal the accumulated value of this office . "
Over the summer , the office reapplied for a federal grant to serve Passaic County in the coming year .
But Legal Services Corp. in Washington rejected the application , saying it failed to address the service needs of the entire tri - county area - a requirement under the new rules .
By mid - December , the federal body is expected to award Passaic County 's federal funding - about $ 385,000 this year - to Northeast New Jersey Legal Services , the tri - county agency .
State funds of about $ 1.6 million could follow , although Thorne noted the state appropriated $ 927,000 of that amount through June 2003 .
The state Treasury Department 's legal services representative did not return repeated calls for comment .