State - mandated course enables nearly 70 percent of divorcing couples to untie the knot without a lawyer .
A majority of Vermonters who divorce do so without hiring an attorney .
Instead , they take a class on how to represent themselves .
The court - mandated session is for people who have filed for divorce and opted not to hire a lawyer .
Nearly 70 percent of Vermonters are divorced without an attorney , according to statistics from the Court Administrator 's Office .
Some are put off by the cost of a hiring a divorce lawyer , which starts at about $ 1,500 .
Others just want to be in control of the process .
" There 's not a lot of low - cost counsel available .
If you 've got limited resources and you think you can do it , and the court does help , then maybe this is the one thing that you forego in order to pay for something else , " said Sally Fox , a former state representative who helped write the legislation to establish Family Courts and who used to be the state director of Family Court operations .
There are also risks to going it alone .
Many of the decisions that are made in front of a judge can not be reversed later .
The state established a Family Court system in 1990 .
A separate court system would bring divorce and child custody cases onto the same docket as juvenile cases .
The goal was to more quickly resolve cases that had to do with children , Fox said .
" Because it 's a place where the needs of children will be paramount , we want it to be a place where you can get these cases resolved quickly , " Fox said .
Family Court was set up as a user - friendly place and continues to add programs to streamline the process .
Although the court was n't necessarily established to allow the majority of Vermonters to represent themselves in a divorce , that has been the effect .
Tom Garrett , executive director of Legal Services Law Line of Vermont , said he worries most about people who have reading problems , disabilities or who are so traumatized by the divorce itself that they lack judgment in making decisions .