Five independent Salt Lake organizations that provide legal services to the poor , ethnic minorities , seniors and people with disabilities have joined together to acquire a west - side downtown building where they will have their offices .
The new Community Legal Center at 205 N. 400 West is a project of " And Justice for All , " which , until this venture , has been a joint fund - raising campaign by an alliance of the non - profit providers of free legal services .
" And Justice for All , " which solicits donations primarily from Utah lawyers and foundations , was the first joint fund - raising campaign of legal services agencies in the country , and the Community Legal Center is the first joint office project of public service law groups .
The Legal Aid Society of Salt Lake , the Disability Law Center , the Multi - Cultural Legal Center , the Senior Lawyer Volunteer Project and Utah Legal Services will share the new facility , and last Wednesday their board members were given a tour of the Community Legal Center hosted by staff members of the five agencies .
All of the agencies can share the same reception area and client waiting room .
The building is close in , across the street from West High and two blocks from the Gateway .
It has its own parking , something that 's hard to find downtown and which has been a problem for staff as well as clients .
Owning and sharing the building and not paying rent times five will save the non - profit agencies about $ 375,000 each year .
My assistant , Charity Christenson , pointed out that the shared facility will also be efficient for those needing legal services .
No longer will a woman desperate for a protective order , for example , have to run all over town trying to find the right agency .
After the tour , we found Jaye Olafson at the cookies and brownies reception on the first floor .
Jaye and her husband , Erik , own Tomax Technologies and were the sellers of the building .
Jaye explained how much of the renovation had been merely uncovering what was already there .
The hardwood floors , wooden ceilings and brick and stone interior walls were all hidden behind coverings and old paint .
She loves the building , and they only moved out because the business had outgrown the space .
So they renovated the old Sweet Candy Company building for Tomax .
The Olafsons are delighted with the new owners .
The building had been like home , she explained , and so it was important who would be living there .