On a day it celebrated 50 years of giving free legal advice , Southern Arizona Legal Aid announced it has received two grants totaling more than $ 7 million .
One of the grants includes the creation of a Web site with legal advice for the poor .
A three - year grant worth $ 6.6 million and a separate technology grant were announced at a press conference and dinner held Thursday at Evo .
A. DeConcini Federal Courthouse , 405 W. Congress St. Deconcini was one of the organization 's early board members .
Thursday 's celebration was the first public even held at the courthouse .
About 100 members of the legal community attended , including state Attorney General Janet Napolitano and Arizona Supreme Court Justice Thomas Zlaket .
Both grants come from the Legal Services . , a private , nonprofit corporation established by Congress in 1974 to offer poor people equal access to the justice system .
It 's funded through congressional appropriation .
The $ 6.6 million grant will pay for staffing operations .
The Web site , which will be created with a $ 50,000 grant , is intended to offer legal advice to poor people across Arizona , said Paul Julian , chief executive officer of Southern Arizona Legal Aid .
He said he wants every poor person in Arizona to have legal help .
" This is another step in trying to realize that .
We feel like we do a pretty good job of helping people who find us , " Julian said .
Julian said that though most people do not own computers , they can still access them at libraries , schools , and courthouses .
He said the Web site will help bridge the " digital divide " that keeps the poor from using the Internet as a resource .
Southern Arizona Legal Aid was founded in 1951 as the Legal Aid Society of the Pima County Bar Association .
It offered free legal advice on civil matters including disputes in small claims court , divorce proceedings and obtaining Social Security benefits .
Charles Ares , a member of the board of directors in the 1950s , said the office was kind of a charity operation .