The eviction of three Lynchburg women and four children last summer , partly as a result of a " rent - to - own " contract , has drawn the attention of the General Assembly .
But a bill drafted by Del. Preston Bryant , R - Lynchburg , wo n't be addressed until next year after the Virginia Housing Commission , prompted by a Senate Joint Resolution , offers its recommendations based on a statewide study of rent - to - own contracts and other housing issues .
Bryant said he read about the issue in a July News & Advance editorial .
The editorial stemmed from a News & Advance article which highlighted three women and four children who were being evicted after their home at 1328 Bedford Ave . , was cited for two dozen code violations .
The women had been paying $ 425 a month in a rent - to - own agreement for five years , or roughly $ 25,500 .
They still had another 10 years to go to complete the contract .
" I called the Virginia Legal Aid Society and also talked to ( City Attorney ) Walter Erwin and ( Housing Authority executive director ) Ed McCann about it , " Bryant said Monday .
" I asked them to take a look at this issue as an ad hoc committee . "
" I was a little concerned about it and wanted to see if there was any reasonable steps that could be taken to help protect folks that are not overly burdensome . "
Bryant 's bill , House Bill 1122 , requires all rent - to - own contracts to be recorded in the land deeds where the property is located along with any documents indicating the financial arrangement .
It also requires landlords to have their property inspected prior to tenants signing a rent - to - own contract and to provide the tenant with the inspection report .
" Many times , those entering into these contracts are your less sophisticated people , " Bryant said .
" And while I do n't think we as a government can protect everybody we can take some steps to help protect people . "
Lawyers say the rent - to - own contracts are legal but the contracts do tend to take advantage of people with limited options .
" We always tell people not to sign those , " said Renae Patrick , managing attorney at Lynchburg 's Virginia Legal Aid Society , in a June 27 , 2001 article about rent - to - own contracts .
Commissioners with the Lynchburg Redevelopment and Housing Authority approved last September a resolution that would require inspections every time a tenant moved out .
That proposal also required an inspection before a new tenant signs a rent - to - own contract .
The resolution must come before City Council for final action .