Registration fees for Illinois lawyers could jump as much as $ 49 a year if lawmakers adopt two separate measures to bolster pro - bono services and support for lawyers with drug and alcohol problems .
The Illinois Supreme Court is pushing for legislation that would allow it to dedicate money raised through the fee hikes to legal services to the poor .
The justices are floating a $ 42 increase to shore up financing for pro - bono work , as the normal funding mechanism for legal services has fallen short in recent years .
Currently , support for non - profit legal aid groups comes from interest generated on the Lawyers ' Trust Fund , which pools clients ' money that attorneys hold for such matters as escrow funds .
But low interest rates and a sagging economy mean there is less money being generated .
After hours of discussion , the high court agreed that raising the registration fees would be the best way to address the declining revenues , Chief Justice Moses W. Harrison II said .
The judges were reluctant to raise those fees but eventually decided that supporting probono services was important enough " and lawyers had a responsibility to contribute " to the cause , Harrison said .
Last year , the high court raised the base fee for active attorneys to $ 180 from $ 140 .
Lawyers in their first three years of practice or who are inactive pay $ 90 , and retired lawyers pay nothing .
Legislation circulated by the high court 's lobbyist specifies that the hike would apply to attorneys " paying full annual registration fees . "
In 2001 , there were 57,392 active attorneys in Illinois and 74,311 on the full roll , according to the Attorney Registration and Disciplinary Commission .
The hike would raise roughly $ 2.4 million .
Last year , interest on the trust fund totaled $ 4.5 million , but service and handling fees consumed $ 538,000 of that amount .
This year 's returns are projected to be anywhere between $ 700,000 and $ 1 million short of that mark , said Ruth Ann Schmitt , the executive director of Lawyers Trust Fund of Illinois .
Harrison said the fee hikes are designed only to counter the shortfall in interest income , not add to the total amount available .
" Our legal services are already stretched to the breaking point , " Schmitt said .
" We have a tough time raising enough money to properly fund services that our clients need . "
Neither the Illinois State Bar Association nor The Chicago Bar Association has taken a stance on the proposed hikes .