Michigan will lose $ 2 million in federal funding and $ 600,000 in state funding to provide legal aid to the poor in 2003 , according to Deierdre L. Weir , executive director of the Legal Aid and Defender Association , Inc. , the state 's largest provider of legal services to the poor .
Current federal funds of nearly $ 10.7 million from the Legal Services Corporation ( LSC ) will drop to $ 8.7 million for next year , according to Weir .
She said that the reductions reflect a decline in the number of persons in the state who are living in poverty , according to the U.S. Census Bureau 's 2000 census .
LSC uses census data to determine funding across the nation , and according to the census , the state 's poverty population fell from an estimated 1.2 million in 1990 to an estimated 968,000 in 2000 .
The state 's legal aid agencies are also bracing for yet another cut in 2003 of some $ 600,000 of state funding .
A portion of filing fees paid by litigants in the state 's circuit courts , and a portion of interest on lawyers trust accounts ( IOLTA ) are earmarked for Michigan legal aid programs .
These funds are expected to drop from currently $ 7.5 million in 2002 to $ 6.9 million when the Michigan State Bar Foundation makes distributions next year .
Most of the decrease is attributed to the past year 's low interest rates .
" The irony of these funding cuts is that while there may be fewer poor people in Michigan today , the demand for service will not change because the poverty population remains so large and the legal aid funding so little that local providers will never able to serve all who need our service , " said Weir .
" It 's as if the poor will be victimized twice - once for being poor and again as victims of these funding cuts . "
The U.S. Census Bureau , in spite of its best efforts , can not locate every poor person living in a census tract , therefore the poor are also undercounted , added Weir .
The brunt of these cuts will be felt most in Wayne County where according to the census some 333,000 poor people live , the largest concentration of poverty in the state .
LAD will lose more than $ 870,000 for legal aid in Wayne County , nearly half of the state 's total loss , said Weir .
While difficult to measure , the loss of funds will mean that several thousand of Michigan 's poor in need of legal service will not receive it , or they will receive significantly limited service .
Cutbacks will include service in such civil legal matters as landlord - tenant , bankruptcy , consumer , child custody , predatory lending , mortgage foreclosure , utility shutoffs , social security , wills , and probate .
" Local providers will have to work harder and smarter and use more technology instead of staff to provide as much service as we can with fewer dollars , " said Weir .
" We will be providing more selfhelp training to clients enabling them to navigate the legal system on their own in routine matters , more assistance on the telephone , and less direct representation by attorneys in specific , high impact matters .
Currently , Michigan has 13 legal aid agencies covering the state 's 83 counties .