Prairie State Legal Services Inc. of Peoria managing attorney Lisa Y. Wilson vows that poor central Illinoisans will continue to have free lawyers to assist them , despite funding cuts .
" There has been a decrease in funding to this Prairie State Legal office by about $ 50,000 , " Wilson said Thursday .
" That means that we will lose money to supply one attorney , but we should be able to continue to manage .
It 's not having the impact as it is having in Chicago " and at other agencies statewide .
Wilson 's office , at 331 Fulton St. , Suite 600 , serves poor residents in the counties of Peoria , Tazewell , Woodford , Marshall and Stark .
Wilson learned from Eric Kleiman , a spokesman for Legal Services Corp. - the Washington , D.C.-based agency that distributes federal money for free legal aid programs in Illinois - that LSC will lose about $ 920,000 in congressional funding annually .
Besides Prairie State , LSC also funds the Legal Assistance Foundation of Metropolitan Chicago , and Alton - based Land of Lincoln Legal Services .
The cuts will take the biggest bite out of Land of Lincoln , a network of eight offices and 40 lawyers who help clients in southern Illinois with problems such as eviction , access to Social Security and obtaining orders of protection from abusive spouses , Kleiman said .
The LSC allocates money to states based on the number of poor counted in the last census .
The 2000 census showed Illinois with about 35,000 fewer people who are eligible for LSC services .
Although the three groups deliver most of the legal aid in Illinois , dozens of other programs offer similar services , and all will feel the pain when the Lawyers Trust Fund of Illinois doles out grants for 2003 .
The fund , created by the Illinois Supreme Court in 1983 , gets interest from escrow accounts and other money lawyers often keep for their clients and spends it on legal aid .
This year , the fund will likely award just half of the $ 3.5 million it usually gives some 34 groups statewide , said Ruth Ann Schmitt , the trust funds executive director .
The Illinois General Assembly has appropriated about $ 500,000 annually for legal aid in recent years , an amount Bartylak said has not been much reduced .
Still , of the nation 's 10 most populated states , Illinois ranks last in the amount of money legislators appropriate for legal aid , LSC President John Erlenborn said earlier this year .
Peoria County State 's Attorney Kevin Lyons said all the budget cuts will not affect poor criminals because the state court appoints public defenders .