The Domestic Violence Legal Assistance Program fills the gap of legal resources for domestic violence survivors who ca n't afford an attorney .
Domestic violence survivors in Jackson , Vicksburg , Hattiesburg , Oxford and Pascagoula can all get help .
Julia Crockett , deputy director of Central Southwest Mississippi Legal Services Corp. , said the program expects to help nearly 1,000 domestic violence victims .
Crockett said legal help gives domestic abuse survivors a way to rebuild their lives .
" They have been made to feel by the abuser that no one is going to help them do anything , so when they come to us they are desperate , " she said .
" Those who need legal help and do n't get it feel totally lost .
Because then they feel like they are forced to stay in that situation . "
Crockett said the program , funded by a $ 300,000 grant from the U.S. Justice Department , has no economic restrictions on who can get help .
Legal services typically helps the poor .
Gladys Bunzy , who said she was in an abusive relationship with a boyfriend for eight years , said such a program is long overdue and could be a lifeline for those escaping violent relationships .
" When I finally made up my mind to leave , I had a restraining order put against him and that was $ 50 but that was $ 50 well spent to me , " said Bunzy , 40 .
" For people who ca n't afford it , this will be a godsend ... If a woman knows she is going to get some help that will be a burden off her mind , if the law will help her keep that person away from her . "
Gwen Bouie - Haynes , project director of the Domestic Violence Services Center for Catholic Charities Inc. , said often domestic violence survivors do not have the money to seek legal representation .
" Legal assistance is a major issue for women fleeing a domestic violence situation , " she said .
" Often times women are in need of immediate legal assistance services for the protection of the mother and the child .
To get a protective order you need to be represented by an attorney . "
Crockett said the pilot program was launched in 1998 at the Haven House Family Shelter Inc. , a domestic violence shelter for women and children in Vicksburg .
The program has helped victims in 90 court cases , and 150 legal counseling sessions have been held there .