Still untaken are several steps that required goodwill from local bar associations and others who had opposed the combination .
" [ I am ] not a fan of Neal 's , " admitted John Peck , a former board member of the San Gabriel - Pomona Valley program and a Pasadena Bar Association board member .
Peck says bad feelings still linger among Ailies of the old program who feel left out .
" They really screwed us .
We had a good program , " Peck said .
An observer familiar with the reconfiguration debate who requested anonymity wondered why Dudovitz had not spent more time mending fences .
" He ought to be bending over backwards for reconciliation , but if you want to do impact work and people in the San Gabriel Valley want direct services , you have to accommodate that or change your approach , " the observer said .
" Neal would never consider doing that . "
More than a year after he officially incorporated the San Gabriel - Pomona Valley , Dudovitz had not placed a local resident on the board of Neighborhood Legal Services or made the rounds of the private legal community to recruit the volunteer lawyers .
" Our emphasis has been on having our potential clients know about us and deliver services to them , " Dudovitz said .
" We have done that spectacularly . "
He did not hire any of the old program 's nine lawyers and has yet to permanently place any of his 18 new hires in the San Gabriel - Pomona Valley .
The lack of a legal aid presence in Pomona prompted the bar association and court officials to start their own once - monthly family law clinic .
After learning of the effort , Dudovitz sent personnel to staff the clinic for three hours per week and is helping to write a grant application to fund a self - help kiosk for Pomona patterned on the center he pioneered in Van Nuys .
The help , although late , has earned Dudovitz some appreciation .
" There has been a transition and [ the clinic ] has helped to fill some void , " said Deni Butler , administrator for the Eastern District Superior Court .
" But we are working together quite nicely contrary to what the other side issue is . "
Scott Wheeler , president of the Eastern Bar Association of Los Angeles and an ally of the old program , said he mobilized his 200 members to staff the clinic after watching the ranks of unserved poor grow over the past year .