Roberta Adams skipped the thick how - to guide on child - custody forms and sat down at a computer at the Lamoreaux Justice Center in Orange on Wednesday .
The Garden Grove woman answered a series of questions to create and print a form to file with the court .
" It 's easy , " said Adams , 25 .
" I thought I 'd have all kinds of questions and have to take the forms home . "
A University of California , Irvine , study released Wednesday found an interactive computer system effectively helps people fill out paperwork for restraining orders , eviction defense , small - claims cases and requests for filing - fee waivers .
Not only does the system make life easier for people who ca n't afford a lawyer , but it also might improve efficiency in the courts because the forms , which are printed out when completed , are easy to read and are being filled out correctly , the study found .
Since the program started in 2000 , more than 6,000 people have used the free system , located in public buildings throughout Orange County .
The system was developed by the Legal Aid Society of Orange County with about $ 800,000 in grants .
The program avoids legal jargon , offers a courthouse video tour and sticks to a fifth - grade vocabulary .
Users can choose English , Spanish or Vietnamese .
Kiosks are in courthouses in Fullerton and Orange , the district attorney 's family - support office , the Legal Aid Society in Santa Ana , Irvine City Hall and the San Juan Capistrano Library .
The program is also available online .
Bob Cohen , executive director of Legal Aid , said the study should clear the way for expansion throughout California .
Locally , a program for divorce petitions will be added this summer .
Cohen said the system proves the benefit of technology tailored to those who are n't computer - savvy .
He said much of the technology now available requires Internet skills and access .
Low - income people , however , have less access to computers and less experience using them .
" Our clients have to catch up , and they have to become a part of the mainstream , " Cohen said .