States like Minnesota and New Jersey spend three times more than California to meet the poor 's legal needs , Connecticut and Massachusetts spend more than twice as much , and countries like England , Canada , Australia , Scotland and New Zealand spend anywhere from two to 14 times more proportionately than California , despite the fact that California has the world 's sixth largest economy .
The report says the state would need to triple its combined public and private investment in legal services to adequately meet the legal needs of low - income Californians .
The 1996 welfare reform legisla tion , in particular , brought dramatic changes to the lives of those living in poverty , for while fewer people now receive welfare benefits , those who left welfare to work are still poor .
And the legal issues they face " have become more numerous and complex , " the report said .
" Parents who found only low - paying jobs without health benefits did not improve the well - being of their children .
Women who entered the workforce in low - skilled positions with no opportunity to acquire marketable skills lack realistic long - term options .
Obstacles to employment such as lack of child care and transportation , domestic violence and job discrimination raise a host of new legal issues . "
Those issues revolve around an extensive universe of problems , including housing , education , domestic violence , immigration , employment , grandparent guardianships , bankruptcy and consumer debt , veterans ' issues , elder abuse and home equity fraud , the report said .
To meet all those needs , there is only one legal aid lawyer for every 10,000 poor Californians .
Despite this bleak picture , the state 's civil justice community has taken significant steps to close the gap between need and services in the past five years : The legislature and the governor established the Equal Access Fund , which has provided $ 10 million annually since 1999 for more than 100 local legal services programs .
Access to the courts has been enhanced through a variety of self - help options , including online assistance in every county , a system of family law facilitators , increased funding for alternative dispute resolution and simplified forms and procedures .
The Judicial Council is addressing language barriers by increasing the availability of qualified interpreters and translating forms and instructions into Spanish , Vietnam - ese , Korean and Chinese .
Legal services programs have been strengthened by offering a wide range of services , including self - help clinics and hotlines and working relationships with social services agencies to meet all of a client 's needs .
Still , when more than 70 percent of the poor 's legal needs are not being met , much remains to be done , the report points out .
It recommends adding to the access fund , increasing both the number of pro bono hours and financial contributions from attorneys , improved assistance for unrepresented litigants and access to an attorney for those who require one , and development of a statewide plan to distribute legal services more evenly throughout the state to insure that the rural population also is served .
" I know my fe llow judges want to do justice and not inflict injustice , " observed Justice Earl Johnson of the California Court of Appeal , who chaired the committee that researched and wrote the report .
" More than anyone , they know it can be nearly impossible to do the former and avoid the latter in a one - sided contest where only one litigant has a lawyer . "
" Our whole society is harmed when access and fairness are denied , " said Londen .