MALS was formed here more than 30 years ago .
Today , 14 staff attorneys , 26 office workers and 21 University of Memphis third- year law students work out of rented offices in the old Claridge Hotel building at 109 N. Main .
Offices are spartan .
There are no lush rugs or stylish furniture .
The large table in the conference room is simple varnished wood .
Offices are small and mostly plain , except for the eclectic mix of pop art , African statuary and neon that adorns litigation director Webb Brewer 's space .
Brewer , who has been at the agency 20 years , said there is a need for lawyers of all stripes to help with the problems of the poor .
" The private bar could meet more of the need through pro bono work , but there are still cases that involve the systemic problems for low - income people that we would need to do , " said Brewer .
" The legal system marketplace just does n't serve low - income people too well , except in fee - generat - ing type cases , " Brewer said .
" If a poor person gets run over by a bus , an attorney might take that case because they might be able to recover part of the damage award as attorney fees .
But so many of the cases we handle have to do with basic rights and a decent life .
There is just no profit motive . "
Larry Pivnick , law professor at the University of Memphis Law School and director of political programs at MALS , said Legal Services is a great learning laboratory for law students .
" There are thousands and thousands of people who have problems that never get an opportunity to appear in court , " Pivnick said .
" Some people may not be particularly articulate .
Courts have rules that clients do n't always understand . "
Brewer said a major focus of the agency 's work involves housing .
" Although a lot of our work is grant - driven , we find that the lack of safe and decent affordable housing and the prevalence of predatory lending are the biggest problems in our client population , " Brewer said , referring to clients such as James .