Backers of Legal Aid services for the poor are pushing a measure that would increase court filing fees in Kentucky to raise money for the program , which faces steep funding cuts .
The proposed bill , sponsored by Rep. Charles Geveden , D - Wickliffe , would double the portion of the fee that goes to Legal Aid -- in district court to $ 10 from $ 5 and in circuit court to $ 20 from $ 10 .
Kentucky 's current fee for filing a case in district court is $ 50.50 , and in circuit court $ 108 .
The increase still would leave Kentucky 's filing fee costs below those of surrounding states and would raise about $ 1.3 million a year -- almost enough to replace what Legal Aid is losing from federal and other sources , said Jamie Hamon , executive director of the Access to Justice Foundation , a state poverty law resource center in Lexington .
Geveden said his measure appears to be the only potential source of money for the program , which is being forced to lay off workers and close offices around the state .
Geveden said he 's concerned because federal funding has n't increased in recent years , and states with increased poverty are taking a greater share of the money .
' ' If you do n't come up with the money somewhere , legal services to people in need will diminish or go away , ' ' he said .
Hamon said the proposed bill has attracted a number of co - sponsors , and Legal Aid backers are hoping to get it passed in the upcoming legislative session .
Hamon said she knows fee increases are n't popular with lawmakers but hopes they realize the crisis Legal Aid is facing .
' ' A lot of poor people are not going to get served , ' ' she said .
The measure has the endorsement of the Kentucky Bar Association .
The association 's board of governors voted unanimously last month to back the bill , said KBA President Stephen Catron , a Bowling Green lawyer .
Legal Aid ' ' has been a godsend to a great number of people in this state , ' ' Catron said .
' ' We simply must find a way to provide those services to the public . ' '
Larry York , executive director of Appalachian Regional Defense Fund , which provides Legal Aid services in 37 Eastern Kentucky counties and is a KBA board member , said he hopes the measure is approved .
' ' It would really offset the current cuts , ' ' he said .