After becoming disabled in a machete attack on a visit to his native Haiti , Jean - Claude Joseph needed help persuading his landlord to move him from a fifth - floor apartment to one on the ground floor .
Isaac Benjamin became ensnared in a bureaucratic snafu that took away his Social Security disability payments for more than two years .
The story of Martha , a woman from Sierra Leone , was more compelling .
Beaten , raped and tortured in her politically repressive homeland , she knowingly used someone else 's passport to escape to America , but was caught by immigration authorities upon her arrival .
She desperately sought political asylum .
Not the kind of cases that lead to ground - breaking upheavals in the law , but the kind of cases that are handled day in and day out by lawyers for the legally disenfranchised who have no where else to turn .
The work of attorneys from Legal Services of New Jersey will be highlighted in a onehour documentary , " Quest for Justice , " to be aired 9 p.m.
today on New Jersey Network .
Produced by NYD2 , a communications firm based in Somerset , the documentary features case histories of clients whose needs ranged from housing to fighting off deportation .
Joseph , a 54-year - old naturalized citizen , turned to Legal Services when the landlord of his federally subsidized apartment complex in Elizabeth turned a deaf ear to his request for a ground - floor apartment .
Having lost the use of his left arm in warding off the machete attack during a robbery attempt , Joseph said he found it increasingly difficult to negotiate the five flights of stairs lugging groceries or laundry on the frequent occasions when the building 's elevator was out of order .
" With this , it became impossible for me to stay upstairs , " he said , pointing to the scars on his forearm .
" If I can not carry my groceries or my laundry , how can I live ? "
" It was a compelling case , " said Legal Services attorney Stephen St. Hilaire .
" The key for us -- and we have to make tough decisions all the time on whether to take a case -- was visualizing what he had to do to get to the fifth floor , struggling with a bag of groceries , " he said .
Benjamin , 53 , of Jersey City had been collecting Social Security disability after undergoing double bypass surgery when the checks stopped coming .
He said the agency claimed he had failed to return a form updating the condition of his health .
" But what got me was they did n't let me know they did n't get it , they just cut me off , " he said , adding he found it impossible to negotiate the Social Security bureaucracy himself .