On Monday , departing Gov. Roy Barnes will spend his first day as a private citizen by starting his new job as a full - time , pro - bono ( unpaid ) lawyer at the Atlanta Legal Aid Society .
The decision by Barnes , the most improbable casualty of Election Day 2002 , to go to work for legal aid was almost as unexpected as his November defeat .
As a legal services attorney , Barnes will help women escape domestic violence , Mauricio Vivero is vice president seniors fight predatory lending scams and parents obtain child support for their kids .
of Legal In doing so , he will take his place on the front line of the U.S. legal community 's Services Corporation , the uphill and underpublicized struggle to achieve equal access to justice for millions of Washington - Americans too poor to afford legal representation .
based nonprofit corporation chartered by The inaccessibility of the U.S. civil justice system is hardly a new development , but it Congress in took Barnes ' decision to put the national media spotlight on our country 's ongoing 1974 to promote equal access to access - to - justice crisis .
civil justice .
The 2000 U.S. census reports that more than 43 million Americans qualify for free federally funded legal assistance , yet fewer than 20 percent of eligible clients ( annual income : $ 11,075 or less ) are able to obtain legal help when they need it , according to the American Bar Association .
In Georgia , there is just one legal aid lawyer for every 10,500 eligible poor people .
Barnes understood this problem long before he became governor .
While in private practice , he handled many pro - bono cases and was a frequent volunteer in the Cobb County office of the federally funded Atlanta Legal Aid Society .
Most memorably , he secured a $ 115 million judgment in 1993 against Fleet Finance for victimizing 18,000 homeowners -- many of them senior citizens -- with its widespread predatory lending mortgage practices .
His long - standing commitment to the underserved is certainly admirable , but it should not be viewed as a rare and laudable act of civic virtue .
To be admitted to practice law , every attorney must take a professional oath to promote justice -- and every state 's ethical rules include language indicating lawyers ' responsibility to be guardians of fair play for those living in poverty .
In Georgia , many law firms , corporations and private attorneys are working pro bono to serve the neediest clients .
Yet only 23 percent of the state 's 23,598 active lawyers reported meeting the Georgia State Bar 's goal of 50 hours of pro - bono service in 2002 .
The need for volunteers is most severe outside the five - county Atlanta metropolitan area , where 70 percent of the state 's poor people are served by only 24 percent of the state 's lawyers .
National pro - bono participation is even worse .
Only 23 percent of the roughly 1 million attorneys in America volunteer even one hour of pro - bono service annually , according to the ABA .