You write : " Having created the desired impression , Moore follows with his Heston interview . "
No , he does n't .
You accuse Moore so often of changing the chronology , yet you have no problems changing it yourself .
The Heston interview is at the very end of the movie .
After the Flint rally comes a brief TV interview with Heston , where he is asked about Kayla Rolland ( again , clear evidence that the local media in Flint raised questions about the NRA 's presence ) , then an inteview with country prosecutor Arthur Busch , entirely ignored by critics of the film , who also mentions Heston 's presence as notable , and refers to the immediate reactions of " people from all over America " , gun owners / groups who , according to him , reacted aggressively to warnings of having guns accessible to children , much like spanking advocates react aggressively when anti - spankers point to a case of a child being killed or severely injured by a beating .
These people do not feel the need to express sympathy , or to think about ways to avoid such incidents , but they feel the need to assert their " rights " and to look for quick , simple answers -- as Busch states , gun owners wanted to " hang [ the child ] from the highest tree " .
This is all not mentioned by critics of Moore 's movie , who claim to be objective .
Perhaps the best example of the paranoia surrounding Moore 's film is your sub - essay " Is the end of the Heston interview itself faked ? "
Moore answers a simple question -- how could the scene have been filmed -- with a simple answer : two cameras .
From this , you construct an obscure conspiracy of " re - enactment " : " For all we can tell , Moore could have shouted ' Hey ! '
to make Heston turn around and then remained silent as Heston left . "
Even if your " re - enactment " theory is true ( and I see no evidence that you have actually tried to ask the people involved in the filmmaking for their opinion ) , this itself is not unethical , and you have no evidence whatsoever that Moore has done anything unethical here , just like you have no evidence that Moore has unethically removed parts of the interview .
You use standard filmmaking technique as a basis to construct bizarre conspiracies which sound plausible to the gullible reader , without ever providing any evidence for the implicit or explicit claims of fraud and distortion .