As a husband , father and tenant of a Grand Rapids public housing complex , Aubrey Robertson puts security at the top of his home priority list .
Because of that , Robertson is all for a zero - tolerance drug law in force at Creston Plaza apartments on Grand Rapids ' Northeast Side .
That includes cases in which families may be evicted for the drug use of a single family member , even off the premises .
Robertson sees it as a tool to keep his complex as clean and safe as possible .
" If there 's one person ( using drugs ) , that is a start , " said Robertson , 52 , a native of Jamaica .
He has lived the past four years at Creston Plaza with his wife , Tammy , and his daughter , Precious , 3 .
In recent months , Robertson was pleased to see casual drug use at the complex diminish with the installation of security cameras .
" If there is a start , then there will be some other problem .
I totally agree ( if there is a drug link ) , get them out . "
Critics say the law -- argued Tuesday before the U.S. Supreme Court -- tramples on individual rights and harms the very people public housing authorities are supposed to help .
" It 's basically one strike and you 're out , and I think they went beyond what Congress intended , " said Michael Chielens , executive director of Western Michigan Legal Services .
" Someone who had no knowledge or involvement in a criminal act is being punished .
That 's kind of a basic due process notion that we have had in our legal tradition for a long time . "
The case was brought by four Oakland , Calif. , senior citizens , including 63-year - old great - grandmother Pearlie Rucker .
They received eviction notices because of the drug use of relatives or caregivers .
Rucker was ordered out because her mentally disabled daughter was caught with cocaine three blocks from the apartment she shared with her mother and other family members , court records show .
An appeals court blocked enforcement of the law .
At issue is whether housing directors are being more aggressive than Congress intended .