A state foundation is giving West Texas Legal Services and the Fort Worth chapter of the NAACP more than $ 1 million to help provide civil legal services to the poor .
The Texas Equal Access to Justice Foundation announced that the Fort Worth - based nonprofit groups will receive grants from funds it controls , including the Interest on Lawyers ' Trust Accounts , or IOLTA , program .
West Texas Legal Services , which works with clients in 106 counties including Tarrant , Lubbock , Midland and Potter , will get about $ 1.03 million .
The legal aid group cleared about 8,300 cases last year .
" It is going to help us out tremendously with our program , " said Kathy Duncan at West Texas Legal Services .
" If it was n't for the grant , we could n't continue to do the work we are doing . "
West Texas handles such cases as divorces , protective orders in domestic violence cases and land - lord - tenant disputes .
It has a staff of about 100 employees , including attorneys and support staff , in 10 branch offices .
The NAACP 's Fort Worth Justice Project will get $ 49,000 .
Officials from the group 's legal assistance program were not available to comment .
Created by the Texas Supreme Court , the Equal Access foundation has distributed about $ 8 million statewide .
Besides the IOLTA program , the money comes from court filing fees and a state criminal victims assistance program .
In Texas , 4.2 million people qualify for legal assistance because they make at or below 120 percent of the federal poverty guideline .
In Tarrant County , 204,000 people are eligible for legal aid .
The grants come at a time when funding for programs providing attorneys for the poor are in jeopardy from declining interest rates , cutbacks in federal funding and legal challenges .
" It needs to be a whole lot more , " said Betty Torres , executive director of the Austin - based foundation .
" Although the poverty population in Texas has increased , statewide and federal funding for this vital work is in decline . "
About $ 4.9 million being distributed this year comes from the IOLTA fund , which is interest earned on money paid to lawyers as retainers or to cover court costs .