Representing yourself in court can be a tricky endeavor .
There are confusing legal terms to learn , strict procedures to follow and volumes of case law that often need to be understood to prepare a case .
Lake County officials and a private agency that assists indigent litigants in Illinois want to make the practice easier by creating a self - help center for people who choose to represent themselves in legal matters .
The center , which will be housed in the law library at the main courthouse in Waukegan , could open later this summer .
" I think it 's going to be extremely helpful , " Court Administrator Bob Zastany said .
" There is a population out there that will take advantage of this resource . "
The self - help center will be the only one of its kind in the county .
Only a few operate nationwide , officials said .
The project is the work of Lake County circuit court officials and Prairie State Legal Services , a statewide agency with an office in Waukegan that provides information and legal assistance to poor and elderly Illinois residents .
The organization has received a $ 25,000 grant from the Illinois Equal Justice Foundation , a nonprofit group that funds programs designed to increase access to legal information and assistance , to help pay for the effort .
Prairie State will share the money with the county .
The county 's law library is on the first floor of the governmental center at 18 N. County St. The new self - help center will be designed to help litigants find the information they need to properly represent themselves in court , an undertaking that can be complicated and confusing .
" Some people can do OK on their own , and some people can do OK with some help , " said Linda Rothnagel , the managing attorney for Prairie State Legal Services .
" But other people ca n't do it .
It 's not always easy . "
Self - representation is a right affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court .
The practice is far more common in civil matters than in criminal cases .
In fact , self - represented litigants - formally called " pro se " in Latin , or " for oneself " - in criminal defenses are so rare that statistics about the practice generally are not kept , legal experts say .