Free Legal advice is only a phone call away - and the hot lines that provide it are expanding their services .
It 's a little known perk available to anyone 60 or older : 21 states , Washington D.C. , and Puerto Rico operate legal - assistance hot lines for older adults and most take calls from younger caregivers as well .
Volunteers offer advice on legal questions , provide self - help materials , and make referrals to legal aid offices and pro bono or reduced - fee private lawyers .
Even if you live in a state without a hot line , local agencies on aging will provide you with referrals to nearby lawyers .
The hot lines and referral services tackle estate planning , pension , and health benefits , elder abuse and neglect , guardianship custodial issues involving grandchildren , consumer protection and other elder - law issues .
The U.S. administration on Aging coordinates this loosely knit legal - services network .
Anyone who meets the age requirement can call the hot line , but hands - on legal counsel goes first to people with the greatest financial or social needs .
The federal Agency recently awarded $ 2 million in grants to improve elder - law services , with the largest part being used to bolster 12 hotlines around the country , some of which are adding Web - based questionnaires and outreach projects in rural areas and for older people who do n't speak English .
For a list of where the hotlines operate , along with their phone numbers and hours , go to www.aoa.gov/legal/hotline.html , or call the federal Eldercare Locator at 800 - 677 - 1116 .
If you live in a state without a hot line , the locator can point you to local legal assistance .
Another source of low - cost help also expanded this year : AARP 's Legal Services Network is now available in 46 states and expects to reach all 50 by the end of March .
You have to pay the group 's dues ( $ 10 a year ) to use the services ; after that you get 30 minutes of legal counseling , either face - to - face or by phone , at no cost .
Lawyers discount their usual rate by 20 % after that .
Simple wills cost $ 75 apiece .
You can reach the service at 800 - 424 - 3410 or go to www.aarp.org/LSN to find a lawyer nearby .