In her storage room - turned - office , Jennifer Baum works under an expanding leak that is causing the ceiling to turn brown and crumble .
Mold grows in the buckets positioned to catch the water .
She shrugs it off .
Outside her office she has taped up a clear plastic suit , and a sign that reads , " All employees must don protective gear before coming in . "
Such is life in limbo .
Nearly a year after Sept. 11 , the Legal Aid Society - the lawyers for New York 's poor and homeless - remains , well , homeless .
The nonprofit has been barred from returning to its 90 Church St. headquarters , across from the World Trade Center site , because of environmental concerns .
Legal Aid has uncomfortable company .
More than 11,500 New Yorkers continue to work out of temporary space , according to analysis by Manhattan - based real estate brokerage TenantWise.com Inc. and Crain 's New York Business .
That 's 8 % of the 137,000 workers who lost their offices or access to them when the Twin Towers collapsed .
Legal Aid 's 450 displaced attorneys and staffers have spent the past 12 months spread among previously unused spaces - some unused for good reason - in the nonprofit 's other offices .
It could be another year and a half before they return to their old desks .
They have contended with difficult working conditions as demand for Legal Aid 's services is on the rise because of Sept. 11 and the deteriorating economy .
The civil division is spread among a few boroughs .
Their papers and documents , some 20,000 boxes worth , are stuck in a storage facility in Linden , N.J. " I am counting the days till we can have all the parts back in one place , " says Steven Banks , Legal Aid 's associate attorney in chief .
In the memories of the exiled workers , the old office has achieved mythical proportions .
They say the wood paneling and rugs had the ability to cool emotions and lift spirits .
The Legal Aid office on Montague Street in Brooklyn Heights , where 65 displaced workers have cobbled together space amid the faded and scratched walls , looks more like a bargain basement .