After more than a year of effort , attorneys with Northwest Justice Project earlier this week told 25 families in a mobile home park here that they can keep their homes and no longer need to fear eviction .
The East Wenatchee City Council has entered into an Interlocal Agreement with the Wenatchee Housing Authority authorizing the Authority to purchase and maintain the Mobile Park Plaza mobile home park .
Located just north of the Wenatchee Valley Mall , the park had been threatened with closure for more than a year .
" We can not say enough about how relieved we are that this is over , " said Manuel Luna , one of the residents of Mobile Park Plaza .
" We were afraid that no solution would be found , and that our families would have no place to go .
We are very grateful for the help of our attorneys .
Without them , we would not have saved our homes .
We are also thankful for the help of the Housing Authority , the City Council and Mayor Steve Lacy . "
Formerly owned by local businessman Dan Jennings , Mobile Park Plaza had been home to 45 low - income families , many of them Latino farm workers .
In October 2000 Jennings gave the park residents notice of his intent to close the park effective November 30 , 2001 .
While some park residents decided to move , others , including 25 families , organized an informal association to relocate or save their homes .
Unable to afford private legal counsel , the families asked for help from legal services attorneys at the Northwest Justice Project and Columbia Legal Services .
In the succeeding months , these attorneys worked with representatives of the Greater Wenatchee Housing Authority , the state Office of Community Development , Chelan County , the City of East Wenatchee , state legislators , Jennings and others to secure funding and find a solution .
" There seemed to be a never - ending set of obstacles , " said Patrick Pleas , an attorney with Northwest Justice Project .
" Mr. Jennings had financial considerations , the City had growth and economic development considerations , and the State and Housing Authority had their own concerns .
Thankfully , hard work and good will from all parties allowed us to find a solution that works for everyone . "
Northwest Justice Project and Columbia Legal Services are non - profit organizations that provide civil legal assistance to low - income individuals and families throughout Washington state .
Members of the state 's Access to Justice Network , these organizations work with thousands of volunteer attorneys to ensure that justice is available to those who face critical legal problems and ca n't afford private legal counsel .