Women and minorities appear to be benefiting from greater employment opportunities in the United States , but discrimination remains a significant problem , according to a study to be released today by two professors at the Rutgers School of Law in Newark .
The study , which extrapolated from federal data on about 200,000 large and midsize employers , concludes that about two million workers were affected by intentional discrimination in 1999 .
Roughly a third of the employers studied appeared to have discriminated against women or minorities in at least one job category , the authors said The study was based on information collected from employers by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission from 1990 through 1999 on so - called EEO-1 forms .
The husband - and - wife team of Alfred W. and Ruth G. Blumrosen then looked at how many women or minority workers a company employed in different job categories compared with how many were employed at other companies in the same industry in the same geographic area .
They described a company as an intentional discriminator if its employment of women or minorities was at least two standard deviations from the average .
Legally , companies are presumed to discriminate if their employment numbers are far below the norm .
About 22,000 employers were identified as " hard core " discriminators .
These companies employed below - average numbers of women and minorities for 10 years and their hiring of women or minorities was so far below the averages that there was only one chance in a hundred that the discrimination occurred randomly .
The study also found rising employment for women and minorities , suggesting significant progress in the workplace .
The names of the companies are confidential and were not known to the researchers .
The professors expect to make their study available through a Web site , www.eeo1.com .
The Blumrosens , who were instrumental in setting up the E.E.O.C. in 1965 , also say the government should make more active use of their data .
The commission said it did not comment on draft reports .