Unfortunately , because the zooming is rather fast , it is easy to miss the rest of the sentence , so as you correctly note , some viewers got an incorrect impression .
It would have been fair for Moore to point out this possible misinterpretation on his website .
However , the claim of deliberate distortion is ludicrous for several reasons : a ) Moore clearly states that " before he came to Flint " , Heston gave an interview .
In the excerpt from said interview , we can see that it is from March .
If Moore wanted to deceive his viewers , why would he say this , and show the month the interview was published ?
b ) Why should Moore leave the words " Clinton is on the Today Show " visible in the text , which is necessary to correctly interpret the highlighted part ?
I reviewed the sequence several times and it is perfectly possible to see this text without pausing .
c ) Both the " soccer mom " interview and the sequences showing the NRA rally make no effort to distort the fact that this rally happened months after the fact .
The camera lingers on Bush / Cheney posters , and the protestor is quoted as saying that " we wanted to let the NRA know that we have n't forgotten about Kayla Rolland " .
You make the hysterical claim that the interview " may be faked " ( on the basis that no name is shown for the interviewee ) , but if Moore had faked it , why the hell should he put this sentence in the protestor 's mouth , which directly contradicts the conclusion that the rally happened hours after Kayla 's death ?
Why did Moore , the masterful deveiver , not edit this sequence out ?
This makes no sense .
Opinions may vary on how tasteless it was for Heston to hold a pro gun rally on the location of the nation 's youngest school shooting months after the fact , but this sequence of " Bowling " is without doubt the most unfair to Heston .
The claims of deliberate distortion do n't hold up when viewing the whole scene , though -- as " Hanlon 's Razor " states , one should never attribute to malice what can be attributed to incompetence .
The somewhat inept editing of the NRA press release has led some viewers to wrong conclusions , which is unfortunate , but Moore 's critics have no interest in viewing the matter fairly .
Had they done so , Moore himself would probably have apologized for the gaffe .
In any case , at no point does Moore make a false statement , in contradiction to claims by critics that his documentary is " full of lies " .