It 's just this hard when I try to answer the question : Why do older Oklahomans need lawyers ?
The answers are important enough that they will be a discussion topic of this year 's Senior Day at 9 a.m.
March 25 in the House Chamber at the Capitol .
The following is a preview of some of the answers for review : We can all agree that older Oklahomans need medical care .
But even the best care is worthless if an older patient ca n't drive to the doctor for ongoing treatment because his or her car has been wrongfully seized in a debt dispute .
Therefore , lawyers are part of the prescription for regular medical care for many of the 600,000 Oklahomans age 60 and older .
Another example : if a doctor treats an elderly patient for a lung ailment , the doctor 's treatment will be undone and he will see the patient again and again , if the patient is sent home to an unheated apartment .
Lawyers know how to make landlords heat apartments so the medical treatment can stick .
( By the way , a May 16 , 2001 , article in The New York Times reports on a program at Boston Medical Center providing a walk - in legal clinic in the hospital to help fight their patients ' legal and administrative battles . ) We also can agree that older Oklahomans - like all citizens - have rights to control their health care until they become incapacitated or these rights are transferred to another by legal document or process .
" Old " is not a legal classification that results in automatic loss of these rights .
Moreover , having an old parent does not automatically confer on children the right to make the parents ' health care choices .
It follows that an important role lawyers provide for aging Oklahomans is not only to create rights - transferring documents such as durable powers of attorney and guardianship orders , but also to monitor their use .
In family situations , for example , lawyers must ensure that powers of attorney and guardianships are used to serve only the person transferring or losing rights .
They are not to be used to help a family " manage " their mother or help a doctor or nursing home get permission for a pill or procedure they feel is in the best interest of a patient .
Good news : Oklahoma now has a Public Guardianship Program , albeit unfunded , that will supply lawyers to perform this rights - monitoring process Oklahoma grandparents should be able to enjoy their grandchildren , not raise them .
But owing to the social problems of divorce and drug use , grandparents are increasingly being called on to raise their grandchildren because of missing parents .
Adding to the physical , emotional and financial burden they take on , grandparents face legal problems .
All the decisions parents made without a second thought now require evidence of legal authority when made by grandparents .