Low - income domestic violence victims may find long - term legal help -- representation in divorces or child - custody disputes -- hard to come by , if two organizations now providing such help ca n't replace their lost funding .
The Legal Aid Society of Salt Lake and Utah Legal Services are already facing cutbacks after they were refused a federal grant of more than $ 450,000 in September .
The board overseeing the state Office of Crime Victim Reparations [ CVR ] has voted to deny a stopgap funding request from the two organizations .
While describing the request as a worthy cause , board members agreed Tuesday that funding divorces or custody disputes was outside their focus -- providing direct services for crime victims .
The $ 175,000 requested would have allowed the legal aid groups to maintain a skeleton staff to continue providing help beyond emergency protective orders for victims , completing existing cases and offering services in limited cases .
The groups also plan to enlist more pro bono attorneys through coordination with the Utah State Bar . " We do n't have a lot more options , " said Anne Milne , executive director of Utah Legal Services , after learning of the CVR refusal Wednesday .
The organization has already lost some staff through attrition and has turned away some cases , she said .
Milne said she may ask the board overseeing her organization to give her until November to seek funding from additional sources .
Without additional funding , the outlook for longer - term legal help is unclear .
For two years , the groups had received 18-month civil legal assistance grants from the U.S. Department of Justice and had used them to provide such assistance .
But last month , a third request was denied .
Funding used to help victims obtain emergency protective orders remains in place , said Milne and Stewart Ralphs , executive director of the Legal Aid Society of Salt Lake .
Although an order 's requirements that an abuser stay away from a victim may remain in effect for years , protective orders only settle issues such as child custody , child support , custody and property arrangements for 150 days .
Many judges are reluctant to address those issues in emergency protective orders , since the decrees stay in effect for such a short time , Milne and Ralphs said .
" The likelihood a victim will return to her abuser increases if she can not permanently sever the relationship and establish workable support , custody and property arrangements , " the funding request to CVR said .
The Department of Justice said it denied the grant application , in part , because evaluators did not see enough collaboration between the organizations and victims ' advocates , Ralphs and Milne told CVR board members .
While the two said they believe their organizations coordinate well , the organizations can not appeal the grant denial .
Although CVR board members considered giving the money as a loan , not a grant , their vote on the funding request -- taken after Milne and Ralphs left the meeting -- was unanimous .