Not surprisingly , guncite , too , compares data from different years -- as I know from personal experience , it is quite difficult to do comparisons of crime statistics due to differences in reporting frequency and methodology .
The gun homicide rates for the countries Moore mentioned , according to guncite , are : Japan : 0.02 per 100,000 ( 1994)England / Wales : 0.11 per 100,000 ( 1997)Germany : 0.22 per 100,000 ( 1994)Australia : 0.44 per 100,000 ( 1994)United States : 3.72 per 100,000 ( 1999 ) Critics fail to credit Moore with not making the same mistake that some gun control advocates make -- concluding that gun ownership " leads " to violence .
In fact , Moore mentions several counter - examples , and more such counter - examples can indeed be cited .
It is intuitively obvious that guns do not actually cause violence -- but it is equally intuitively obvious that they make the violence that is committed more deadly .
It is the second intuition which gun rights groups like the NRA seek to obscure using fraudulent data by the likes of John " Mary " Lott .
The gun control movement , on the other hand , distracts from the real causes of violence -- poverty , paranoia , the " war on drugs " and antisexuality .
If these causes were addressed , gun ownership in the United States would not be a problem ( but also unnecessary ) ; just like it is in Switzerland .
Canada ammunition purchase .
You write : Bowling shows Moore casually buying ammunition at an Ontario Walmart .
He asks us to " look at what I , a foreign citizen , was able to do at a local Canadian Wal - Mart . "
He buys several boxes of ammunition without a question being raised .
" That 's right .
I could buy as much ammunition as I wanted , in Canada .
Canadian officials have pointed out that the buy is faked or illegal .
Once again , you fail to distinguish between regular film editing and " faking " ( a word which " Canadian officials " have never used ; for such a distortion , Moore would have been boiled alive by his critics ) .
If Moore simply chose not to show how he revealed his identification to the salesperson , there is nothing fraudulent about that .
He made no claims whatsoever in the film about the need to show or not show identification .
His claim that it is possible to purchase ammunition in supermarkets is independent from that claim .