The violent arena of domestic abuse litigation has grown a bit more volatile here , now that a judge has decided to hold two women in contempt of court for returning to men who had been ordered to stay away from them .
" You ca n't have it both ways , " said Judge Megan Lake Thornton of Fayette County District Court in recently fining two women $ 100 and $ 200 respectively for obtaining protective orders forbidding their partners from contacting them , then relenting and contacting the men .
Ruling that the order was mutually binding , Judge Thornton also cited the men for contempt .
" It drives me nuts when people just decide to do whatever they want , " said Judge Thornton , who is experienced in the state 's thick domestic abuse docket , which produces close to 30,000 emergency protective orders a year .
Kentucky officials say there is a virtual epidemic of abusive relationships in the state .
Judge Thornton 's ruling has alarmed advocates for battered women , who plan to appeal it .
The advocates say the finding goes beyond existing law and is unrealistic because some renewed contacts often prove unavoidable in domestic abuse cases , which involve economic and family dependency and other complications of daily living .
The state office on domestic violence has pointedly agreed , warning that the ruling could cause abused women to hesitate in bringing their plight before the courts for fear of being chastised for their trouble .
" The reality is it 's easy to say they should never have contact , " said Sherry Currens , executive director of the Kentucky Domestic Violence Association , an advocacy and legal protection group .
" But we 're talking about people in long - term relationships .
They may have children in common .
It 's pretty hard to say , ` Never speak again . '
People have financial difficulties .
They may love the partner .
It 's not an easy thing . "
But Judge Thornton declared in court , " When these orders are entered , you do n't just do whatever you damn well please and ignore them . "
The ruling stunned Cindra Walker , the lawyer for the two women , who is with Central Kentucky Legal Services , which represents many of the thousands of indigent women caught in abusive relationships .
" For over five years , I 've been in court practically every day on these abuse cases , " Ms. Walker said , " and I 've never before had a victim threatened with contempt . "