Shrinking revenue is forcing Legal Aid of West Virginia to close six satellite offices and lay off 17 employees by January .
The agency provides free legal representation in civil cases to about 24,000 low - income people annually .
Legal Aid lawyers help victims of domestic violence , and they supervise the ombudsman program that sends advocates into all the state 's nursing homes .
" We are here for people who have no place to turn , " Adrienne Worthy , executive director for the agency , said Tuesday .
" Our phones ring off the hook now .
I do not look forward to saying , ' I 'm sorry .
We ca n't help you . " ' The Legal Aid board agreed Saturday to close satellite offices in Fayetteville , Madison , Pineville , Welch , Winfield and Williamson .
Satellite facilities in Clay , Hamlin and Summersville and all 11 regional offices will remain open .
Decreases in two funding sources prompted the cuts , Worthy said .
Legal Aid gets funding from the federal Legal Services Corp. based on a formula that counts the number of poor people in a service area .
West Virginia lost 30,000 poor people , according to Census figures used by the Legal Services Corp. The population drop will reduce Legal Aid of West Virginia 's budget by $ 400,000 .
The agency also receives a percentage of money from the Interest On Lawyers ' Trust Accounts .
Lawyers in private practice give a percentage of the interest on money in trust accounts to Legal Aid organizations in all 50 states .
Low interest rates could mean $ 300,000 less from that source , Worthy said .
Because of the funding cuts , 17 people will lose their jobs , including lawyers , paralegals , management and support staff , she said .
West Virginia has one Legal Aid lawyer for every 7,895 poor people in the state .
For people who can afford lawyers , there is one lawyer to every 368 people , she said .
Nate Bowles , president and chairman of Legal Aid 's board , said the agency plans to continue taking on " The cases that evidence the most desperate need . "