The letterhead on correspondence still bears the Bexar County Legal Aid name , even though the organization is no longer .
Texas Rural Legal Aid - known for its fearless and sometimes controversial advocacy of the poorest of the poor - last week took over four other corporations serving the legal needs of the indigent in Southwest Texas , including the one in Bexar County .
The new 68-county legal aid organization has yet to be named and stretches from El Paso to Corpus Christi , Harlingen to Austin .
The leader for the super - sized law firm has big plans .
" I 'm more interested in looking at what we as advocates can do to address the serious problems of poverty than the number of cases we close , " said David Hall , the TRLA executive director .
In the Rio Grande Valley , Hall 's attorneys set up separate groups to assist small - business owners and residents with low - interest loans and legal representation .
They also operate a legal arm that assists migrant workers from Texas to Kentucky .
Now , Hall said , he wants to make services to the poor more efficient by working with law students who will handle less complicated legal matters , allowing licensed attorneys to take more " high impact " cases to court .
" What we need to do is handle cases as efficiently as we can , leveraging the amount of time of the lawyer that goes in there and maximizing the number of people that they can help at one time , " Hall said .
His plan is to place the 110 attorneys on staff in teams working on specialized legal issues .
He wants to expand the law clinic it already has with St. Mary 's University Law School to involve students at the University of Texas Law School .
The law students at St. Mary 's interview potential clients , assist them with filling out legal documents and answer the telephones for the legal hotline , freeing up TRLA lawyers to handle the complicated cases , Hall said .
By the end of September , Hall said all the attorneys working with the poor in the 68county area will be placed on the same computer network so they can pass cases to the best available attorneys .
Last year , board members on the former Legal Aid of Central Texas and Bexar County Legal Aid resisted the merger , saying that the mergers were done illegally and without the input of board members .
They also argued that Hall 's litigious style hampered their ability to garner funds from Congress .
TRLA generated controversy in 1996 , when its attorneys challenged the rights of 800 military personnel to vote in Val Verde County elections by absentee ballot after a former Ku Klux Klan member won a county commissioner post .
Brendan Gill , the former executive director of the Bexar County group , said he has since come to see the merger as a positive move for South Texas .
" I always knew there were good points to merging , just as I knew that there were bad points , " Gill said .