The New York City Council yesterday offered a radically different set of priorities for the handling of the city 's legal work in its response to Mayor Bloomberg 's plan to close a projected $ 4.8 billion budget deficit .
The City Council plan would increase by nearly 50 percent - to $ 80.4 million - the amount of funding Mayor Bloomberg proposed for the Legal Aid Society by sharply curtailing compensation for court - appointed lawyers under the 18-B program .
The City Council plan would also reduce to 2 percent the Bloomberg plan 's 7 percent cut for District Attorney 's Offices citywide .
The City Council 's proposal for the 650-lawyer Corporation Counsel 's Office would slash its budget by 10 percent - or $ 10.2 million - to $ 92 million .
In contrast , Mayor Bloomberg 's budget plan called for a modest 3.8 percent in the Corporation Counsel 's budget , leaving the office relatively untouched in comparison to most other mayoral agencies .
Council aides said yesterday that they did not have a head count for the cuts at the Law Department , but that the City Council plan is tilted towards the elimination of legal positions , which at 10 percent would require the layoff of more than 65 lawyers .
At the same time , the City Council plan envisages dramatic cuts in the legal departments of many city agencies with a view to transferring the work to the Law Department .
The plan also calls for the elimination of the Mayor 's Office of Contracts , which would save $ 1.8 million , and the transfer of the legal work done by that agency to the Corporation Counsel 's Office .
Council aides did not have a total for the savings that would be realized in city agency legal departments through its plan .
But , they said , the proposal would save $ 10 million by eliminating more than 300 lawyers at the Administration for Children 's Services , many of whom prosecute neglect and abuse cases in Family Court .
Jack Deacy , a spokesman for Administration for Children 's Services , was unavailable for comment .
Council aides also identified steep cuts in the legal departments of other agencies : all 40 lawyers at the Department of Correction for a savings of $ 2 million ; 21 of 28 lawyers at the Department of Sanitation , saving $ 945,000 ; and seven of 10 lawyers at the Department of Buildings , $ 451,000 in savings .
Asked how the Corporation Counsel 's Office could take on the expanded work while its own legal staff was being cut , Thomas L. McMahon , the general counsel of the City Council , said that in view of the city 's " terribly difficult fiscal circumstances , " the City Council plan provides a better way of " managing the city 's work force given the resources we have . "
Kate Ahlers , a spokeswoman for Corporation Counsel 's Office , said that her office had not yet received the City Council 's plan and could not comment .
The administrative savings proposed by the City Council through the elimination of the Office of Contracts and many agency legal positions were part of $ 559 million the Council proposed to save through " consolidation and efficiency " in management .
In total , the City Council proposed realizing $ 1.65 billion through savings and increased fees , including restoration of the commuter tax , to fund its own initiatives and offset some of the cuts proposed by Mayor Bloomberg in his preliminary budget on Feb.