When single father Thurman Williams needed help filling out papers in a custody suit recently , he did n't look to his lawyer for help .
He walked to a computerized kiosk at the Lamoreaux Justice Center in Orange and started tapping the keys .
As part of a legal experiment , litigants without lawyers across California are using computerized video kiosks to prepare common court filings and seek basic legal advice .
The kiosk used by Williams is part of a statewide effort to cope with a flood of litigants who can not afford or refuse to hire lawyers .
Court officials statewide fear the number of self - represented litigants has reached crisis levels and threatens to clog court calendars .
Like Williams , more than 6,000 Orange County litigants have initiated court actions on I - CAN !
kiosks or accessed the programs on the Internet , using home computers .
Similar programs are operating in Sacramento , San Diego and Ventura .
A recent study of the kiosks ' first 18 months of operation concluded it is too soon to tell if the system will relieve pressure on court calendars .
But the report , by UC Irvine 's School of Social Ecology , said users were overwhelmingly positive about the free legal assistance .
" It 's made life a lot easier for me , " Williams said .
" It 's helped keep me from going to the poorhouse . "
The 29-year - old Orange resident was directed to a kiosk in the Lamoreaux Justice Center by court staff .
After putting on headphones and following the directions of a videotaped instructor , Williams filled out a quarter - inch stack of paternity and custody documents .
The exercise took 20 minutes ; it would have cost him about $ 800 if he had relied on a lawyer , he said .
" It was a lot easier than I thought . "
Whether they ca n't afford a lawyer or just want to save money , more Californians are going to court without a lawyer .
" I 'm just amazed at the numbers , " said Commissioner Salvador Sarmiento , who hears between 40 and 90 child - support cases a day in Lamoreaux Justice Center .