Alexander 's army crossed the Hellespont in 334 BC with approximately 48,100 soldiers , 6,100 cavalry and a fleet of 120 ships with crews numbering 38,000 , drawn from Macedon and various Greek city - states , mercenaries , and feudally raised soldiers from Thrace , Paionia , and Illyria .
( However , Arrian , who used Ptolemy as a source , said that Alexander crossed with more than 5,000 horse and 30,000 foot ; Diodorus quoted the same totals , but listed 5,100 horse and 32,000 foot .
Diodorus also referred to an advance force already present in Asia , which Polyaenus , in his Stratagems of War ( 5.44.4 ) , said numbered 10,000 men . ) He showed his intent to conquer the entirety of the Persian Empire by throwing a spear into Asian soil and saying he accepted Asia as a gift from the gods .
This also showed Alexander 's eagerness to fight , in contrast to his father 's preference for diplomacy .
After an initial victory against Persian forces at the Battle of the Granicus , on the 24 of Daisios ( 8 April 334 BC ) , Alexander accepted the surrender of the Persian provincial capital and treasury of Sardis ; he then proceeded along the Ionian coast , granting autonomy and democracy to the cities .
Miletos , held by Achaemenid forces , required a delicate siege operation , with Persian naval forces nearby .
Further south , at Halicarnassus , in Caria , Alexander successfully waged his first large - scale siege , eventually forcing his opponents , the mercenary captain Memnon of Rhodes and the Persian satrap of Caria , Orontobates , to withdraw by sea .
Alexander left the government of Caria to a member of the Hecatomnid dynasty , Ada , who adopted Alexander .
From Halicarnassus , Alexander proceeded into mountainous Lycia and the Pamphylian plain , asserting control over all coastal cities to deny the Persians naval bases .
From Pamphylia onwards the coast held no major ports and Alexander moved inland .
At Termessos , Alexander humbled but did not storm the Pisidian city .
At the ancient Phrygian capital of Gordium , Alexander " undid " the hitherto unsolvable Gordian Knot , a feat said to await the future " king of Asia " .
According to the story , Alexander proclaimed that it did not matter how the knot was undone and hacked it apart with his sword .