When the Algerian War began in 1954 , Camus was confronted with a moral dilemma .
He identified with the pieds - noirs such as his own parents and defended the French government 's actions against the revolt .
He argued that the Algerian uprising was an integral part of the ' new Arab imperialism ' led by Egypt and an ' anti - Western ' offensive orchestrated by Russia to ' encircle Europe ' and ' isolate the United States ' .
Although favouring greater Algerian autonomy or even federation , though not full - scale independence , he believed that the pieds - noirs and Arabs could co - exist .
During the war he advocated a civil truce that would spare the civilians , which was rejected by both sides , who regarded it as foolish .
Behind the scenes , he began to work for imprisoned Algerians who faced the death penalty .
From 1955 to 1956 , Camus wrote for L'Express .
In 1957 , he was awarded the Nobel Prize in literature " for his important literary production , which with clear - sighted earnestness illuminates the problems of the human conscience in our times " .
When he spoke to students at the University of Stockholm , he defended his apparent inactivity in the Algerian question ; he stated that he was worried about what might happen to his mother , who still lived in Algeria .
This led to further ostracism by French left - wing intellectuals .
Camus remained active and ambitious until the end of his life .
Financed by the money he received with his Nobel Prize , he adapted and directed for the stage Dostoyesvsky 's Demons .
The play opened in January 1959 at the Antoine Theatre in Paris .
It was a critical success as well as an artistic and technical tour de force : 33 actors , 4 hours long , 7 sets , 24 scenes .
The walls could move sideways to reduce the size of each depicted location and the whole stage rotated to allow for immediate set transformations .
Camus put the painter and set decorator Mayo , who had already illustrated several of Camus ' novels ( The Stranger - 1948 Ed . ) , in charge of the demanding task of designing these multiple and complex theater sets .