After arriving in New York City , Einstein was taken to various places and events , including Chinatown , a lunch with the editors of the New York Times , and a performance of Carmen at the Metropolitan Opera , where he was cheered by the audience on his arrival .
During the days following , he was given the keys to the city by Mayor Jimmy Walker and met the president of Columbia University , who described Einstein as " The ruling monarch of the mind . "
Harry Emerson Fosdick , pastor at New York 's Riverside Church , gave Einstein a tour of the church and showed him a full - size statue that the church made of Einstein , standing at the entrance .
Also during his stay in New York , he joined a crowd of 15,000 people at Madison Square Garden during a Hanukkah celebration .
Einstein next traveled to California where he met Caltech president and Nobel laureate , Robert A. Millikan .
His friendship with Millikan was " awkward " , as Millikan " had a penchant for patriotic militarism , " where Einstein was a pronounced pacifist .
During an address to Caltech 's students , Einstein noted that science was often inclined to do more harm than good .
This aversion to war also led Einstein to befriend author Upton Sinclair and film star Charlie Chaplin , both noted for their pacifism .
Carl Laemmle , head of Universal Studios , gave Einstein a tour of his studio and introduced him to Chaplin .
They had an instant rapport , with Chaplin inviting Einstein and his wife , Elsa , to his home for dinner .
Chaplin said Einstein 's outward persona , calm and gentle , seemed to conceal a " highly emotional temperament , " from which came his " extraordinary intellectual energy . "
Chaplin also remembers Elsa telling him about the time Einstein conceived his theory of relativity .
During breakfast one morning , he seemed lost in thought and ignored his food .
She asked him if something was bothering him .
He sat down at his piano and started playing .
He continued playing and writing notes for half an hour , then went upstairs to his study , where he remained for two weeks , with Elsa bringing up his food .
At the end of the two weeks he came downstairs with two sheets of paper bearing his theory .
Chaplin 's film , City Lights , was to premier a few days later in Hollywood , and Chaplin invited Einstein and Elsa to join him as his special guests .