Alexander 's body was laid in a gold anthropoid sarcophagus that was filled with honey , which was in turn placed in a gold casket .
According to Aelian , a seer called Aristander foretold that the land where Alexander was laid to rest " would be happy and unvanquishable forever " .
Perhaps more likely , the successors may have seen possession of the body as a symbol of legitimacy , since burying the prior king was a royal prerogative .
While Alexander 's funeral cortege was on its way to Macedon , Ptolemy seized it and took it temporarily to Memphis .
His successor , Ptolemy II Philadelphus , transferred the sarcophagus to Alexandria , where it remained until at least late Antiquity .
Ptolemy IX Lathyros , one of Ptolemy 's final successors , replaced Alexander 's sarcophagus with a glass one so he could convert the original to coinage .
The recent discovery of an enormous tomb in northern Greece , at Amphipolis , dating from the time of Alexander the Great has given rise to speculation that its original intent was to be the burial place of Alexander .
This would fit with the intended destination of Alexander 's funeral cortege .
Pompey , Julius Caesar and Augustus all visited the tomb in Alexandria , where Augustus , allegedly , accidentally knocked the nose off .
Caligula was said to have taken Alexander 's breastplate from the tomb for his own use .
Around AD 200 , Emperor Septimius Severus closed Alexander 's tomb to the public .
His son and successor , Caracalla , a great admirer , visited the tomb during his own reign .
After this , details on the fate of the tomb are hazy .
The so - called " Alexander Sarcophagus " , discovered near Sidon and now in the Istanbul Archaeology Museum , is so named not because it was thought to have contained Alexander 's remains , but because its bas - reliefs depict Alexander and his companions fighting the Persians and hunting .
It was originally thought to have been the sarcophagus of Abdalonymus ( died 311 BC ) , the king of Sidon appointed by Alexander immediately following the battle of Issus in 331 .
However , more recently , it has been suggested that it may date from earlier than Abdalonymus ' death .