Alexander was born on the sixth day of the ancient Greek month of Hekatombaion , which probably corresponds to 20 July 356 BC , although the exact date is not known , in Pella , the capital of the Kingdom of Macedon .
He was the son of the king of Macedon , Philip II , and his fourth wife , Olympias , the daughter of Neoptolemus I , king of Epirus .
Although Philip had seven or eight wives , Olympias was his principal wife for some time , likely a result of giving birth to Alexander .
Several legends surround Alexander 's birth and childhood .
According to the ancient Greek biographer Plutarch , Olympias , on the eve of the consummation of her marriage to Philip , dreamed that her womb was struck by a thunder bolt , causing a flame that spread " far and wide " before dying away .
Some time after the wedding , Philip is said to have seen himself , in a dream , securing his wife 's womb with a seal engraved with a lion 's image .
Plutarch offered a variety of interpretations of these dreams : that Olympias was pregnant before her marriage , indicated by the sealing of her womb ; or that Alexander 's father was Zeus .
Ancient commentators were divided about whether the ambitious Olympias promulgated the story of Alexander 's divine parentage , variously claiming that she had told Alexander , or that she dismissed the suggestion as impious .
On the day that Alexander was born , Philip was preparing a siege on the city of Potidea on the peninsula of Chalcidice .
That same day , Philip received news that his general Parmenion had defeated the combined Illyrian and Paeonian armies , and that his horses had won at the Olympic Games .
It was also said that on this day , the Temple of Artemis in Ephesus , one of the Seven Wonders of the World , burnt down .
This led Hegesias of Magnesia to say that it had burnt down because Artemis was away , attending the birth of Alexander .
Such legends may have emerged when Alexander was king , and possibly at his own instigation , to show that he was superhuman and destined for greatness from conception .
In his early years , Alexander was raised by a nurse , Lanike , sister of Alexander 's future general Cleitus the Black .
Later in his childhood , Alexander was tutored by the strict Leonidas , a relative of his mother , and by Philip 's general Lysimachus .
Alexander was raised in the manner of noble Macedonian youths , learning to read , play the lyre , ride , fight , and hunt .
When Alexander was ten years old , a trader from Thessaly brought Philip a horse , which he offered to sell for thirteen talents .
The horse refused to be mounted and Philip ordered it away .