Durer exerted a huge influence on the artists of succeeding generations , especially in printmaking , the medium through which his contemporaries mostly experienced his art , as his paintings were predominately in private collections located in only a few cities .
His success in spreading his reputation across Europe through prints was undoubtedly an inspiration for major artists such as Raphael , Titian , and Parmigianino , all of whom collaborated with printmakers in order to promote and distribute their work .
His work in engraving seems to have had an intimidating effect upon his German successors , the " Little Masters " who attempted few large engravings but continued Durer 's themes in small , rather cramped compositions .
Lucas van Leyden was the only Northern European engraver to successfully continue to produce large engravings in the first third of the 16th century .
The generation of Italian engravers who trained in the shadow of Durer all either directly copied parts of his landscape backgrounds ( Giulio Campagnola and Christofano Robetta ) , or whole prints ( Marcantonio Raimondi and Agostino Veneziano ) .
However , Durer 's influence became less dominant after 1515 , when Marcantonio perfected his new engraving style , which in turn travelled over the Alps to dominate Northern engraving also .
In painting , Durer had relatively little influence in Italy , where probably only his altarpiece in Venice was seen , and his German successors were less effective in blending German and Italian styles .
His intense and self - dramatizing self - portraits have continued to have a strong influence up to the present , especially on painters in the 19th and 20th century who desired a more dramatic portrait style .
Durer has never fallen from critical favour , and there have been significant revivals of interest in his works in Germany in the Durer Renaissance of about 1570 to 1630 , in the early nineteenth century , and in German nationalism from 1870 to 1945 .
Durer 's study of human proportions and the use of transformations to a coordinate grid to demonstrate facial variation inspired similar work by D'Arcy Thompson in his book On Growth and Form .
The Lutheran Church remembers Durer as a great Christian annually on April 6 , along with Lucas Cranach the Elder and Hans Burgkmair .
The liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church ( USA ) remembers him , Cranach and Matthias Grunewald on August 5 .