After the death of Spitamenes and his marriage to Roxana ( Roshanak in Bactrian ) to cement relations with his new satrapies , Alexander turned to the Indian subcontinent .
He invited the chieftains of the former satrapy of Gandhara , in the north of what is now Pakistan , to come to him and submit to his authority .
Omphis(Indian name Ambhi Kumar ) , the ruler of Taxila , whose kingdom extended from the Indus to the Hydaspes ( Jhelum ) , complied , but the chieftains of some hill clans , including the Aspasioi and Assakenoi sections of the Kambojas ( known in Indian texts also as Ashvayanas and Ashvakayanas ) , refused to submit .
Ambhi hastened to relieve Alexander of his apprehension and met him with valuable presents , placing himself and all his forces at his disposal .
Alexander not only returned Ambhi his title and the gifts but he also presented him with a wardrobe of " Persian robes , gold and silver ornaments , 30 horses and 1000 talents in gold " .
Alexander was emboldened to divide his forces , and Ambhi assisted Hephaestion and Perdiccas in constructing a bridge over the Indus where it bends at Hund ( Fox 1973 ) , supplied their troops with provisions , and received Alexander himself , and his whole army , in his capital city of Taxila , with every demonstration of friendship and the most liberal hospitality .
On the subsequent advance of the Macedonian king , Taxiles accompanied him with a force of 5000 men and took part in the battle of the Hydaspes River .
After that victory he was sent by Alexander in pursuit of Porus , to whom he was charged to offer favourable terms , but narrowly escaped losing his life at the hands of his old enemy .
Subsequently , however , the two rivals were reconciled by the personal mediation of Alexander ; and Taxiles , after having contributed zealously to the equipment of the fleet on the Hydaspes , was entrusted by the king with the government of the whole territory between that river and the Indus .
A considerable accession of power was granted him after the death of Philip , son of Machatas ; and he was allowed to retain his authority at the death of Alexander himself ( 323 BC ) , as well as in the subsequent partition of the provinces at Triparadisus , 321 BC .
In the winter of 327/326 BC , Alexander personally led a campaign against these clans ; the Aspasioi of Kunar valleys , the Guraeans of the Guraeus valley , and the Assakenoi of the Swat and Buner valleys .
A fierce contest ensued with the Aspasioi in which Alexander was wounded in the shoulder by a dart , but eventually the Aspasioi lost .
Alexander then faced the Assakenoi , who fought in the strongholds of Massaga , Ora and Aornos .
The fort of Massaga was reduced only after days of bloody fighting , in which Alexander was wounded seriously in the ankle .
According to Curtius , " Not only did Alexander slaughter the entire population of Massaga , but also did he reduce its buildings to rubble " .
A similar slaughter followed at Ora .
In the aftermath of Massaga and Ora , numerous Assakenians fled to the fortress of Aornos .
Alexander followed close behind and captured the strategic hill - fort after four bloody days .