Alexander earned the epithet " The Great " due to his unparalleled success as a military commander .
He never lost a battle , despite typically being outnumbered .
This was due to use of terrain , phalanx and cavalry tactics , bold strategy , and the fierce loyalty of his troops .
The Macedonian phalanx , armed with the sarissa , a spear 6 metres ( 20 ft ) long , had been developed and perfected by Philip II through rigorous training , and Alexander used its speed and maneuverability to great effect against larger but more disparate Persian forces .
Alexander also recognized the potential for disunity among his diverse army , which employed various languages and weapons .
He overcame this by being personally involved in battle , in the manner of a Macedonian king .
In his first battle in Asia , at Granicus , Alexander used only a small part of his forces , perhaps 13,000 infantry with 5,000 cavalry , against a much larger Persian force of 40,000 .
Alexander placed the phalanx at the center and cavalry and archers on the wings , so that his line matched the length of the Persian cavalry line , about 3 km ( 1.86 mi ) .
By contrast , the Persian infantry was stationed behind its cavalry .
This ensured that Alexander would not be outflanked , while his phalanx , armed with long pikes , had a considerable advantage over the Persian 's scimitars and javelins .
Macedonian losses were negligible compared to those of the Persians .
At Issus in 333 BC , his first confrontation with Darius , he used the same deployment , and again the central phalanx pushed through .
Alexander personally led the charge in the center , routing the opposing army .
At the decisive encounter with Darius at Gaugamela , Darius equipped his chariots with scythes on the wheels to break up the phalanx and equipped his cavalry with pikes .
Alexander arranged a double phalanx , with the center advancing at an angle , parting when the chariots bore down and then reforming .
The advance was successful and broke Darius ' center , causing the latter to flee once again .
When faced with opponents who used unfamiliar fighting techniques , such as in Central Asia and India , Alexander adapted his forces to his opponents ' style .
Thus , in Bactria and Sogdiana , Alexander successfully used his javelin throwers and archers to prevent outflanking movements , while massing his cavalry at the center .