Tocqueville asserted that the values that had triumphed in the North and were present in the South had begun to suffocate old - world ethics and social arrangements .
Legislatures abolished primogeniture and entails , resulting in more widely distributed land holdings .
This was a contrast to the general aristocratic pattern in which only the eldest child , usually a man , inherited the estate , which had the effect of keeping large estates intact from generation to generation .
In America , in contrast , landed elites were less likely to pass on fortunes to a single child by the action of primogeniture , which meant that as time went by , large estates became broken up within a few generations which , in turn , made the children more equal overall .
It was not always a negative development , according to Joshua Kaplan 's interpretation of Tocqueville , since bonds of affection and shared experience between children often replaced the more formal relation between the eldest child and the siblings , characteristic of the previous aristocratic pattern .
Overall , in the new democracies , hereditary fortunes became exceedingly difficult to secure and more people were forced to struggle for their own living .
This rapidly democratizing society , as Tocqueville understood it , had a population devoted to " middling " values which wanted to amass , through hard work , vast fortunes .
In Tocqueville 's mind , this explained why America was so different from Europe .
In Europe , he claimed , nobody cared about making money .
The lower classes had no hope of gaining more than minimal wealth , while the upper classes found it crass , vulgar , and unbecoming of their sort to care about something as unseemly as money ; many were virtually guaranteed wealth and took it for granted .
At the same time in America , workers would see people fashioned in exquisite attire and merely proclaim that through hard work they too would soon possess the fortune necessary to enjoy such luxuries .
Despite maintaining with Aristotle , Montesquieu , and others that the balance of property determined the balance of power , Tocqueville argued that , as America showed , equitable property holdings did not ensure the rule of the best men .
In fact , it did quite the opposite .
The widespread , relatively equitable property ownership which distinguished America and determined its mores and values also explained why the American masses held elites in such contempt .