Einstein visited New York City for the first time on 2 April 1921 , where he received an official welcome by Mayor John Francis Hylan , followed by three weeks of lectures and receptions .
He went on to deliver several lectures at Columbia University and Princeton University , and in Washington he accompanied representatives of the National Academy of Science on a visit to the White House .
On his return to Europe he was the guest of the British statesman and philosopher Viscount Haldane in London , where he met several renowned scientific , intellectual and political figures , and delivered a lecture at King 's College .
He also published an essay , " My First Impression of the U.S.A. , " in July 1921 , in which he tried briefly to describe some characteristics of Americans , much as Alexis de Tocqueville did , who published his own impressions in Democracy in America ( 1835 ) .
For some of his observations , Einstein was clearly surprised : " What strikes a visitor is the joyous , positive attitude to life .
The American is friendly , self - confident , optimistic , and without envy . "
In 1922 , his travels took him to Asia and later to Palestine , as part of a six - month excursion and speaking tour , as he visited Singapore , Ceylon and Japan , where he gave a series of lectures to thousands of Japanese .
After his first public lecture , he met the emperor and empress at the Imperial Palace , where thousands came to watch .
In a letter to his sons , Einstein described his impression of the Japanese as being modest , intelligent , considerate , and having a true feel for art .
On his return voyage , he visited Palestine for 12 days in what would become his only visit to that region .
Einstein was greeted as if he were a head of state , rather than a physicist , which included a cannon salute upon arriving at the home of the British high commissioner , Sir Herbert Samuel .
During one reception , the building was stormed by people who wanted to see and hear him .
In Einstein 's talk to the audience , he expressed happiness that the Jewish people were beginning to be recognized as a force in the world .