In his 1847 Report on Algeria , Tocqueville declared that Europe should avoid making the same mistake they made with the European colonization of the Americas in order to avoid the bloody consequences .
More particularly he reminds his countrymen of a solemn caution whereby he warns them that if the methods used towards the Algerian people remain unchanged , colonization will end in a blood bath .
Tocqueville includes in his report on Algeria that the fate of their soldiers and finances depended on how the French government treats the various native populations of Algeria , including the various Arab tribes , independent Kabyles living in the Atlas Mountains , and the powerful political leader Abd - el - Kader .
In his various letters and essays on Algeria , Tocqueville discusses contrasting strategies by which a European country can approach imperialism .
In particular , the author differentiates between what he terms ' dominance ' and a particular version of ' colonization ' .
The latter stresses the obtainment and protection of land and passageways that promise commercial wealth .
In the case of Algeria , the Port of Algiers , and the control over the Strait of Gibraltar , were considered by Tocqueville to be particular valuable .
Direct control of the political operations of the entirety of Algeria , however , was not .
Thus the author stresses domination over only certain points of political influence as a means to colonization of commercially valuable areas .
Tocqueville argued that domination via violent means , though unpleasant , is necessary for colonization and justified by the laws of war .
Such laws are not discussed in detail ; however , given that the goal of the French mission in Algeria was to obtain commercial and military interest as opposed to self - defense , it can be deduced that Tocqueville would not concur with Just war theory 's jus ad bellum criteria of just cause .
Further , given that Tocqueville approved of the use of force to eliminate civilian housing in enemy territory , his approach does not accord with Just War Theory 's jus in bellow criteria of proportionality and discrimination .