Alexander II ( Russian : Aleksandr II Nikolaevich , tr .
Aleksandr II Nikolaevich ; IPA : [ aljI'ksandr fta'roj njIka'lajIvjItc ] ; 29 April [ O.S. 17 April ] 1818 in Moscow - 13 March [ O.S. 1 March ] 1881 in Saint Petersburg ) was the Emperor of Russia from 2 March 1855 until his assassination in 1881 .
He was also the King of Poland and the Grand Duke of Finland .
Alexander was the most successful Russian reformer since Peter the Great .
His most important achievement was the emancipation of serfs in 1861 , for which he became known as Alexander the Liberator ( Russian : Aleksandr Osvoboditel ' , tr .
Aleksandr Osvoboditel ; IPA : [ aljI'ksandr asv@ba'djitjIlj ] ) .
The tsar was responsible for numerous other reforms including reorganizing the judicial system , setting up elected local judges , abolishing capital punishment , promoting local self - government through the zemstvo system , imposing universal military service , ending some of the privileges of the nobility , and promoting the universities .
Despite these reforms , during his reign , his brutal secret police , known as the Third Section , sent thousands of dissidents into exile in Siberia .
In foreign policy , Alexander sold Alaska to the United States in 1867 , fearing the remote colony would fall into British hands if there was another war .
He sought peace , moved away from bellicose France when Napoleon III fell in 1871 , and in 1872 joined with Germany and Austria in the League of the Three Emperors that stabilized the European situation .
Despite his otherwise pacifistic foreign policy , he fought a brief war with Turkey in 1877 - 78 , pursued further expansion into Siberia and the Caucasus , and conquered Turkestan .
Although disappointed by the results of the Congress of Berlin in 1878 , Alexander abided by that agreement .
Among his greatest domestic challenges was an uprising in Poland in 1863 , to which he responded by stripping that land of its separate Constitution and incorporating it directly into Russia .
Alexander was proposing additional parliamentary reforms to counter the rise of nascent revolutionary and anarchistic movements when he was assassinated in 1881 .