Alexander III of Macedon ( 20/21 July 356 - 10/11 June 323 BC ) , commonly known as Alexander the Great ( Greek : Alexandros o Megas , Alexandros ho Megas [ a.lek.san.dros ho me.gas ] ) , was a King ( Basileus ) of the Ancient Greek kingdom of Macedon and a member of the Argead dynasty .
Born in Pella in 356 BC , Alexander succeeded his father , Philip II , to the throne at the age of twenty .
He spent most of his ruling years on an unprecedented military campaign through Asia and northeast Africa , until by the age of thirty he had created one of the largest empires of the ancient world , stretching from Greece to Egypt and into northwest India .
He was undefeated in battle and is considered one of history 's most successful military commanders .
During his youth , Alexander was tutored by the philosopher Aristotle until the age of 16 .
After Philip was assassinated in 336 BC , Alexander succeeded his father to the throne and inherited a strong kingdom and an experienced army .
He had been awarded the generalship of Greece and used this authority to launch his father 's Panhellenic project to lead the Greeks in the conquest of Persia .
In 334 BC , he invaded the Achaemenid Empire , ruled Asia Minor , and began a series of campaigns that lasted ten years .
Alexander broke the power of Persia in a series of decisive battles , most notably the battles of Issus and Gaugamela .
He subsequently overthrew the Persian King Darius III and conquered the Achaemenid Empire in its entirety .
At that point , his empire stretched from the Adriatic Sea to the Indus River .
Seeking to reach the " ends of the world and the Great Outer Sea " , he invaded India in 326 BC , but was eventually forced to turn back at the demand of his troops .
Alexander died in Babylon in 323 BC , the city he planned to establish as his capital , without executing a series of planned campaigns that would have begun with an invasion of Arabia .
In the years following his death , a series of civil wars tore his empire apart , resulting in several states ruled by the Diadochi , Alexander 's surviving generals and heirs .
Alexander 's legacy includes the cultural diffusion his conquests engendered , such as Greco - Buddhism .
He founded some twenty cities that bore his name , most notably Alexandria in Egypt .
Alexander 's settlement of Greek colonists and the resulting spread of Greek culture in the east resulted in a new Hellenistic civilization , aspects of which were still evident in the traditions of the Byzantine Empire in the mid-15th century and the presence of Greek speakers in central and far eastern Anatolia until the 1920s .
Alexander became legendary as a classical hero in the mold of Achilles , and he features prominently in the history and myth of Greek and non - Greek cultures .