In collaboration with Sigmund Freud and a small group of Freud 's colleagues , Adler was among the co - founders of the psychoanalytic movement and a core member of the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society : indeed , to Freud he was " The only personality there " .
He was the first major figure to break away from psychoanalysis to form an independent school of psychotherapy and personality theory , which he called individual psychology because he believed a human to be an indivisible whole , an individuum .
He also imagined a person to be connected or associated with the surrounding world .
This was after Freud declared Adler 's ideas as too contrary , leading to an ultimatum to all members of the Society ( which Freud had shepherded ) to drop Adler or be expelled , disavowing the right to dissent ( Makari , 2008 ) .
Nevertheless Freud always took Adler 's ideas seriously , calling them " ... honorable errors .
Though one rejects the content of Adler 's views , one can recognize their consistency and significance " .
Following this split , Adler would come to have an enormous , independent effect on the disciplines of counseling and psychotherapy as they developed over the course of the 20th century ( Ellenberger , 1970 ) .
He influenced notable figures in subsequent schools of psychotherapy such as Rollo May , Viktor Frankl , Abraham Maslow and Albert Ellis .
His writings preceded , and were at times surprisingly consistent with , later neo - Freudian insights such as those evidenced in the works of Otto Rank , Karen Horney , Harry Stack Sullivan and Erich Fromm , some considering that it would take several decades for Freudian ego psychology to catch up with Adler 's ground - breaking approach .
Adler emphasized the importance of equality in preventing various forms of psychopathology , and espoused the development of social interest and democratic family structures for raising children .
His most famous concept is the inferiority complex which speaks to the problem of self - esteem and its negative effects on human health ( e.g.
sometimes producing a paradoxical superiority striving ) .
His emphasis on power dynamics is rooted in the philosophy of Nietzsche , whose works were published a few decades before Adler 's .
However , Adler 's conceptualization of the " Will to Power " focuses on the individual 's creative power to change for the better .
Adler argued for holism , viewing the individual holistically rather than reductively , the latter being the dominant lens for viewing human psychology .
Adler was also among the first in psychology to argue in favor of feminism , and the female analyst , making the case that power dynamics between men and women ( and associations with masculinity and femininity ) are crucial to understanding human psychology ( Connell , 1995 ) .
Adler is considered , along with Freud and Jung , to be one of the three founding figures of depth psychology , which emphasizes the unconscious and psychodynamics ( Ellenberger , 1970 ; Ehrenwald , 1991 ) ; and thus to be one of the three great psychologists / philosophers of the twentieth century .