Alexander married twice : Roxana , daughter of the Bactrian nobleman Oxyartes , out of love ; and Stateira II , a Persian princess and daughter of Darius III of Persia , for political reasons .
He apparently had two sons , Alexander IV of Macedon of Roxana and , possibly , Heracles of Macedon from his mistress Barsine .
He lost another child when Roxana miscarried at Babylon .
Alexander also had a close relationship with his friend , general , and bodyguard Hephaestion , the son of a Macedonian noble .
Hephaestion 's death devastated Alexander .
This event may have contributed to Alexander 's failing health and detached mental state during his final months .
Alexander 's sexuality has been the subject of speculation and controversy .
No ancient sources stated that Alexander had homosexual relationships , or that Alexander 's relationship with Hephaestion was sexual .
Aelian , however , writes of Alexander 's visit to Troy where " Alexander garlanded the tomb of Achilles and Hephaestion that of Patroclus , the latter riddling that he was a beloved of Alexander , in just the same way as Patroclus was of Achilles " .
Noting that the word eromenos ( ancient Greek for beloved ) does not necessarily bear sexual meaning , Alexander may have been bisexual , which in his time was not controversial .
Green argues that there is little evidence in ancient sources that Alexander had much carnal interest in women ; he did not produce an heir until the very end of his life .
However , he was relatively young when he died , and Ogden suggests that Alexander 's matrimonial record is more impressive than his father 's at the same age .
Apart from wives , Alexander had many more female companions .
Alexander accumulated a harem in the style of Persian kings , but he used it rather sparingly ; showing great self - control in " pleasures of the body " .
Nevertheless , Plutarch described how Alexander was infatuated by Roxana while complimenting him on not forcing himself on her .
Green suggested that , in the context of the period , Alexander formed quite strong friendships with women , including Ada of Caria , who adopted him , and even Darius 's mother Sisygambis , who supposedly died from grief upon hearing of Alexander 's death .