A supporter of Cavaignac and of the parti de l'Ordre , Tocqueville , however , accepted an invitation to enter Odilon Barrot 's government as Minister of Foreign Affairs from 3 June to 31 October 1849 .
There , during the troubled days of June 1849 , he pleaded with Jules Dufaure , Interior Minister , for the reestablishment of the state of siege in the capital and approved the arrest of demonstrators .
Tocqueville , who since February 1848 had supported laws restricting political freedoms , approved the two laws voted immediately after the June 1849 days , which restricted the liberty of clubs and freedom of the press .
This active support in favor of laws restricting political freedoms stands in contrast of his defense of freedoms in Democracy in America .
According to Tocqueville , he favored order as " The sine qua non for the conduct of serious politics .
He [ hoped ] to bring the kind of stability to French political life that would permit the steady growth of liberty unimpeded by the regular rumblings of the earthquakes of revolutionary change . ' '
Tocqueville had supported Cavaignac against Louis Napoleon Bonaparte for the presidential election of 1848 .
Opposed to Louis Napoleon 's 2 December 1851 coup which followed his election , Tocqueville was among the deputies who gathered at the 10th arrondissement of Paris in an attempt to resist the coup and have Napoleon III judged for " high treason " , as he had violated the constitutional limit on terms of office .
Detained at Vincennes and then released , Tocqueville , who supported the Restoration of the Bourbons against Napoleon III 's Second Empire ( 1851 - 1871 ) , quit political life and retreated to his castle ( Chateau de Tocqueville ) .
Against this image of Tocqueville , biographer Joseph Epstein has concluded : " Tocqueville could never bring himself to serve a man he considered a usurper and despot .
He fought as best he could for the political liberty in which he so ardently believed - had given it , in all , thirteen years of his life [ .... ] He would spend the days remaining to him fighting the same fight , but conducting it now from libraries , archives , and his own desk . "
There , he began the draft of L'Ancien Regime et la Revolution , publishing the first tome in 1856 , but leaving the second one unfinished .