Maximilian 's death came at a time when Durer was concerned he was losing " my sight and freedom of hand " ( perhaps caused by arthritis ) and increasingly affected by the writings of Martin Luther .
In July 1520 Durer made his fourth and last major journey , to renew the Imperial pension Maximilian had given him and to secure the patronage of the new emperor , Charles V , who was to be crowned at Aachen .
Durer journeyed with his wife and her maid via the Rhine to Cologne and then to Antwerp , where he was well received and produced numerous drawings in silverpoint , chalk and charcoal .
In addition to going to the coronation , he made excursions to Cologne ( where he admired the painting of Stefan Lochner ) , Nijmegen , ' s - Hertogenbosch , Bruges ( where he saw Michelangelo 's Madonna of Bruges ) , Ghent ( where he admired van Eyck 's altarpiece ) , and Zeeland .
Durer took a large stock of prints with him and wrote in his diary to whom he gave , exchanged or sold them , and for how much .
This provides rare information of the monetary value placed on prints at this time .
Unlike paintings , their sale was very rarely documented .
While providing valuable documentary evidence , Durer 's Netherlandish diary also reveals that the trip was not a profitable one .
For example , Durer offered his last portrait of Maximilian to his daughter , Margaret of Austria , but eventually traded the picture for some white cloth after Margaret disliked the portrait and declined to accept it .
During this trip he also met Bernard van Orley , Jan Provoost , Gerard Horenbout , Jean Mone , Joachim Patinir and Tommaso Vincidor , though he did not , it seems , meet Quentin Matsys .
At the request of Christian II of Denmark , Durer went to Brussels to paint the King 's portrait .
There he saw " The things which have been sent to the king from the golden land"--the Aztec treasure that Hernan Cortes had sent home to Holy Roman Emperor Charles V following the fall of Mexico .
Durer wrote that this treasure " was much more beautiful to me than miracles .
These things are so precious that they have been valued at 100,000 florins " .
Durer also appears to have been collecting for his own cabinet of curiosities , and he sent back to Nuremberg various animal horns , a piece of coral , some large fish fins , and a wooden weapon from the East Indies .
Having secured his pension , Durer finally returned home in July 1521 , having caught an undetermined illness -- perhaps malaria --which afflicted him for the rest of his life , and greatly reduced his rate of work .